1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
90  
• service level management; 
• incident and problem management; 
• platform and virtualization management; 
• peer service management. 
9.2.5.3.1 service catalogue 
the service catalogue functional component provides a listing of all the cloud services of a particular cloud 
service provider. a service catalogue can contain/reference all relevant technical information required to 
deploy, provision and run a cloud service. 
9.2.5.3.2 provisioning 
the provisioning functional component provides the capabilities for provisioning services, both in terms of 
the provisioning of service implementations and of access end points and the workflow required to ensure 
that elements are provisioned in the correct sequence. 
9.2.5.3.3 monitoring and reporting 
the monitoring and reporting functional component provides capabilities for: 
• monitoring the cloud computing activities of other functional components throughout the cloud 
service provider's system. this includes the functional components that are involved in the direct 
use of cloud services  by the csc:cloud service users such as the service access and service 
implementation (e.g., the invocation of a cloud service operation by a particular user). this also 
includes functional components  involved in the support of cloud services , such as functional 
components in the oss itself like the service automation  functional component (e.g., the 
provisioning of a service instance for a particular customer); 
• providing reports on the behaviour of the cloud service provider's system, which can take the form 
of alerts for behaviour which has a time -sensitive aspect (e.g., the occurrence of a fault, the 
completion of a task), or it can take the form of aggregated forms of historica l data (e.g., service 
usage data); 
• storage and retrieval of monitoring and event data as logging records. 
there is a need to guarantee the availability, confidentiality and integrity of the logging records held by the 
monitoring and reporting functional component. for multi -tenant cloud services, there is also a need to 
design access to the records so that particular tenants can only gain access to information about their own 
tenancy and about no other tenancy. 
9.2.5.3.4 service policy management 
the service policy management functional component provides capabilities to define, store and retrieve 
policies that apply to cloud services . policies can include business, technical, security, privacy and 
certification policies that apply to cloud services and their usage by cloud service customers. 
some policies can be general and apply to a cloud service irrespective of the customer concerned. other 
policies can be specific to a particular customer. 
9.2.5.3.5 service automation 
the service automation functional component  provides capabilities for service delivery including the 
management and execution of service templates and the orchestration of services. the service automation 
functional component  holds the service templates which define the cloud compu ting activities  and 
workflows required to provision and deliver a specific entry in the service catalogue. 
cloud service provisioning can be automated in order to support scalable resource operations, including 
configuration and charging.  
cloud service administration activities of the cloud service customer can be capable of being automated and 
need not require any intervention by the cloud service provider. 
