3 xaas  
 
626  
e.g., chain composed of intrusion protection system (ips), load balancer and dpi, needs 
dedicated configuration and is not flexible in case of e.g., growth of traffic, 
adding/removing services to/from the chain. 
for the better service flexibility, it is recommended for naas csp to provide programmable 
naas platform, on which naas applications such as vrouter, vcdn, vepc, etc. can be 
deployed, in order to steer the csc's traffic via customized naas applications sequence.  
roles csc (tenant a, tenant b), csp 
figure  
(optional) 
 
pre-conditions 
(optional) 
– csp can deliver dedicated physical network appliances solutions for services, such as 
dpi, intrusion detection, intrusion prevention, load balance, firewall, etc.  
post-conditions 
(optional) 
– csp can provide composed either virtual or physical network services or both, or 
services chains dynamically and flexibly according to the csc's specific service logic in a 
shorter deployment, configuration, and update intervals, compared with dedicated 
physical network appliances solution. 
derived 
requirements 
– programmable naas platform (refer to clause 8.1) 
– dynamic and flexible network services composition and steering (refer to clause 8.2) 
– isolation of service chains for tenants (refer to clause 8.3) 
ii.3.2.2  naas platform use case for platform provision 
 
title naas platform use case for platform provision 
description csc-a is a network operator. csc-a wants to build advanced traffic analysis system and 
multi-dimensional reporting using dynamically scaling dpi functionalities, opportunistic 
services at low risk, and in short time of implementation, multi-tenant cdn, etc., in mobile 
networks. however, classical proprietary hardware-based network appliances inhibit the 
rapid roll out of new converged network functionalities and revenue earning services. they 
neither scale on-demand nor are flexible enough. 
csc-a has the possibility to cope with its business innovation needs by developing 
necessary features and services using naas platform. innovating using naas platform 
allows it to utilize csp network services and combine them with the functionalities 
developed by csc-a. all functionalities can be integrated by csc-a on the basis of naas 
platform to build enhanced network services e.g., virtualized evolved packet core (epc), 
software-based dpi platform, integrated development environments (ides). the capacity of 
naas platform needs to scale elastically according to the utilization of enhanced network 
services to secure the required performance. solutions to support integration of the csp 
network services with the csc-a's developed software are also needed. 
roles csp, csc 

