 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   301 
table i.3 – inter-cloud use case: performance guarantee regarding delay 
use case  
– network connections among interworking csps are instantaneously 
established or reconfigured. then service-related data including user 
identifier (id), user data and application data are transferred from the 
original csp to the csp that is leasing the resources. 
– access from cscs is appropriately changed to the interworking csp so as 
to achieve route optimization and thus mitigate the performance 
degradation caused by the distance from the original csp. 
– as a result, the csc, who keeps the same user id, can continuously 
access the service at the same level of response time as before.  
information flow – relevant csps are supposed to join a common trusted alliance 
(federation) in advance and set up the service level agreements (slas). 
 – a csp inquires about the resource availability of other csps in the 
federation, and requests a reservation of available resources that meet 
the quality requirements of the csc. the requested csps reply whether 
or not they are able to lease the resources. 
– the cloud resource management (e.g., crud: create, read, update and 
delete) are operated across multiple csps. the management is to enable 
the leasing of cloud resources from different csps in the federation.  
– the relevant csps exchange monitoring and auditing information of the 
leased resources.  
high-level figure describing the use 
case  
csc
csc
o
y .3511(14)_fi.tab3
primary-
csp
pre-processes
• csps form a group with service level agreement (i.e., policy negotiation).
• the p-csp monitors csc's quality of service.
secondary-
csp
s-csp
s-csp
4. p-csp changes the csc
access to the s-csp.
group
3. if the p-csp detects the service degradation
and location change of the csc, it chooses an
s-csp nearer to the csc, reserves the resource,
and performs migration to continue the service.
1. cscs accesses
p-csp services.
2.  the csc moves.
note –  after the actions, s-csp monitors the csc's quality of service.
• p-csp may take care of the csc even after csc moves.
• a single s-csp is assumed as the recipient because the
  migration is triggered by one csc to be served by another csp.
•
 
derived requirements for the cloud 
capability 
the capability is required to support: 
– policy negotiation including sla management among the multiple csps 
within a pre-established group (i.e., federation); 
– csc service level monitoring at csp. if the service level degrades, the csp 
should initiate the next configured actions; 
– discovery, reservation, use and release of cloud resources, based on csc 
location, in a dynamic manner (i.e., not relying on the pre-configuration) 
on other csps within the federation; 
– capability migration (e.g., virtual machine (vm) and applications) over 
the reserved resources on other csps within the federation; 
– alteration and reversion (i.e., switchover and switchback) of csc access 
to one csp to another csp in a dynamic manner (i.e., not relying on the 
pre-configuration) within the federation; 
– exchange of monitoring and auditing information among the multiple 
csps within the federation; 
– exchange of authentication information about csc (user/enterprise) 
authentication status among the multiple csps within the federation.  
