3 xaas  
 
636  
appendix iii 
 
considerations on csp's network related activities 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
this appendix provides considerations on csp's network related activities. 
each individual service of the naas category can be specified by a set of terms including: 
• service interface – it is offered to the csc and defines the functionality which is implemented by the 
csp. ser vice interface can include functionality relate d to demarcation points for the 
interconnection of the csp and the csc, topology and route related functionality to share 
topologies, discovery related functionality to perform other services needed by inter-cloud related 
activities, and other functionalities related to monitoring, protection, verification, etc. route related 
functionality requires information on ingress and egress end points and optionally intermediate 
points of a network segment. attributes o f a network segment can include edge point attr ibutes, 
qos parameters, performance attributes, time attributes, user attributes, service requester 
identifier, etc.  
• service demarcation point – this is a boundary point between naas csp and naas csc. it is used as 
a reference point to identify the responsibilities and obligations of all involved entities. for ip/mpls 
networks, the demarcation point user -to-network interface (uni) is a pair of customer edge and 
provider edge. for other transport networks, un i and network -to-network interface (nni) are 
defined as demarcation points. for example, uni defined by metro ethernet forum (mef)  is 
physically implemented over a bi -directional ethernet link that provides the various data, control 
and management plane capabilities required by the metro ethernet network (men) service provider 
to clearly demarcate the two different network domains involved in the operational, administrative, 
maintenance and provisioning aspects of the service. often software abstraction lay er (sal) or 
network operating system (nos) is u sed for the demarcation point for network platforms, and 
tcp/udp sockets for network applications. 
• service capabilities – this is what naas delivers to the csc via service interfaces as network 
connectivity and networking related service capabilities. wh ile transport network connectivity 
capabilities include ip/mpls network, transmission networks, ip mu ltimedia subsystem (ims), 
software defined networking (sdn) and cdn, virtual network connectivity capabilities include 
pseudo-wire, virtual private lan ser vice (vpls), l3 vpn and vlan. networking related service 
capabilities can include wan optimization, l oad balancing, domain name system  (dns), firewall, 
ips/ids, telecommunication services and network applications such as peer-to-peer (p2p) based file 
transfer, etc. 
although infrastructure capability type naas can provide such network as a whole, a csc rel ies on csp for 
the integration and customizing of software, reconfiguring and expanding functionalities of network 
elements, as well as management and admi nistration of the network. when csc leverages naas platforms 
to build its own network, the responsibility of csp is up to the service demarcation point of the platform. csc 
is responsible for managing, administering and operating the network as well as net work functions and 
services implemented up on the demarcation point. 
the composite services provisioned in cloud environments need sla support in the following areas [b-ec sla]: 
• sla specifications capturing the dependencies and interactions between the s ervices. the 
dependencies should be parametric and express the overall service context (e.g., data movements, 
relationships between providers, orchestration rules). 
• convergence in sla management to handle dependencies (e.g., joint management) while retaining 
the autonomy in resource management for each provider. 
enhanced sla specification and management  approaches should take into consideration that composition 
may be performed as either centralized (e.g., an entity managing the composition and the corres ponding 
