 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   13 
– hybrid cloud: cloud deployment model using at least two different cloud deployment models. the 
deployments involved remain unique entities but are bound together by appropriate technology 
that enables interoperability, data portability and application portability. a hybrid cloud may be 
owned, managed, and operated by the organization itself or a third party and may exist on premises 
or off premises. hybrid clouds  represent situations where interac tions between two different 
deployments may be needed but remained linked via appropriate technologies. as such the 
boundaries set by a hybrid cloud reflect its two base deployments. 
6.6 cloud computing cross cutting aspects 
cross cutting aspects are behav iours or capabilities which need to be coordinated across roles and 
implemented consistently in a cloud computing system. such aspects may impact multiple roles, activities, 
and components, in such a way that it is not possible to clearly assign them to individual roles or components, 
and thus become shared issues across the roles, activities and components. 
key cross cutting aspects include: 
– auditability: the capability of collecting and making available necessary evidential information 
related to the operation and use of a cloud service, for the purpose of conducting an audit; 
– availability: the property of being accessible and usable upon demand by an authorized entity. the 
"authorized entity" is typically a cloud service customer; 
– governance: the system by which the provision and use of cloud services  are directed and 
controlled. cloud governance is cited as a cross -cutting aspect because of the requ irement for 
transparency and the need to rationalize governance practices with slas and other contractual 
elements of the cloud service customer to cloud service provider  relationship. the term internal 
cloud governance is used for the application of desig n-time and run -time policies to ensure that 
cloud computing  based solutions are designed and implemented, and cloud computing  based 
services are delivered, according to specified expectations. the term external cloud governance is 
used for some form of agr eement between the cloud service customer  and the cloud service 
provider concerning the use of cloud services by the cloud service customer; 
– interoperability: ability of a cloud service customer to interact with a cloud service and exchange 
information according to a prescribed method and obtain predictable results; 
– maintenance and versioning: maintenance refers to changes to a cloud service or the resources it 
uses in order to fix faults or in order to upgrade or extend capabilities for business reason s. 
versioning implies the appropriate labelling of a service so that it is clear to the cloud service 
customer that a particular version is in use; 
– performance: a set of behaviours  relating to the operation of a cloud service, and having metrics 
defined in a sla; 
– portability: ability of cloud service customers  to move their data or their applications between 
multiple cloud service providers at low cost and with minimal disruption. the amount of cost and 
disruption that is acceptable may vary based upon the type of cloud service that is being used; 
– protection of pii: protect the assured, proper, and consistent collection, processing, communication, 
use and disposal of personally identifiable information (pii) in relation to cloud services; 
– regulatory: there are a number of different regulations that may influence the use and delivery of 
cloud services. statutory, regulatory, and legal requirements vary by market sector and jurisdiction, 
and they can change the responsibilities of both cloud service customers  and cloud service 
providers. compliance with such requirements is often related to governance and risk management 
activities; 
– resiliency: ability of a system to provide and maintain an acceptable level of service in the face of 
faults (unintentional, intentional, or naturally caused) affecting normal operation; 
