xaas 3 
 
     671 
other aspects to be managed by the naas csp include physical (hardware) resources (compute, storage and 
networking resources), resource abstraction and virtual resources. the main functions of resource 
abstraction are: 
– abstraction of physical resources allowing decoupling of nfs from underlying physical resources; 
– allocation of virtual resources from physical resources; 
– provision of virtual resources (virtual comput e, virtual storage) for execution of nfs as well as 
virtualized network connectivity resources for interconnecting nfs of a g iven ns or for 
interconnecting multiple nss. 
7 functionalities for naas 
this clause aims to provide the functionalities which are derived from the functional requirements specified 
in [itu-t y.3512]. the mapping between naas service functional requirements  and the functionalities 
described in this clause is presented in appendix i. 
7.1 naas business related functionalities 
business related functionalities in the naas architecture are m ainly related to the interaction between the 
naas csc and naas csp regard ing naas products offered by the naas csp. this includes naas csp 
functionalities related to the selection and purchasing of specific naas products from a product catalogue by 
the naas csc and all other business related aspects, such as billing. an instance of a naas product represents 
the subscription to a naas product by a given naas csc. 
naas business related functionalities cover cloud customer management and cloud product manageme nt 
functionalities supported by the naas csp as per [itu-t y.3521] where the cloud customer is a naas csc and 
the cloud product is a naas product. these functionalities include naas csp's functionalities concerned with 
the lifecycle of naas products offere d to and purchased by naas cscs, i.e. , functionalities related to naas 
products' order management, performance management, usage statistics, as well as the management of 
naas product instances delivered to naas cscs. more details about lifecycle management of cloud products 
and services can be found in [itu-t y.3522]. 
7.2 functionalities for naas service instantiation 
7.2.1 description of naas service instantiation 
these functionalities are responsible for the instantiation of a naas service following the r eceipt of a valid 
naas product (and associated naas services) order reque st from a naas csc (e.g., a request for a vcdn 
service or vpnaas service). naas service instantiation functionalities maps the validated naas csc request to 
specific naas service depl oyment policies. for the requested naas service instance, the naas servic e 
functionalities requests to the naas service orchestration functionalities (see clause 7.3) to realise the 
corresponding automatic configuration of required naas resources (includin g network services, network 
functions and resources) in the different inf rastructure domains of the naas csp (e.g. , in access transport 
domain, core transport domain and virtualization infrastructure domain) in a programmable manner. 
naas service instantiation results in the instantiation of naas functional components (i.e. , naas service 
capabilities and naas administration capabilities components) in the service layer [itu-t y.3502] of the naas 
csp. for example, in the case of a vpnaas service being instantiated, dedicated vpnaas capabilities functional 
components will be insta ntiated in the service layer. these vpnaas service and administration capabilities 
provided by the service layer will allow the naas csc to request for management and configuration changes 
of a vpn instance to the naas csp and also enable the naas csc to r equest dynam ic vpn network 
reconfiguration. 
7.2.2 modelling for naas service instantiation 
as part of naas service instantiation functionality, a global, coherent and abstrac t view and representation 
of naas resources (including network resources, network services, network functions and network 
operational policies) used during the lifetime of the naas service instance will be provided and presented to 
