intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  837 
ii.17 reference point: i-sc-psi 
the service catalogue functional component interacts with peer service integration functional component 
through i-sc-psi to provide inter-cloud service integration information. 
ii.18 reference point: i-spm-sp 
the service p rovisioning functional component interacts with service policy management functional 
component through i-spm-sp to get inter-cloud service provisioning policy information. 
ii.19 reference point: i-sp-sa 
the provisioning functional component interacts with service aut omation functional component through 
i-sp-sa to provision inter-cloud service automatically. 
ii.20 reference point: i-psm-sp 
the provisioning functional component interacts with peer service management functional component 
through i-psm-sp to access the oss of a peer csp in order to provision inter-cloud service among peer csps. 
ii.21 reference point: i-mr-sp 
the provisioning functional component interacts with monitoring and reporting functional component 
through i-mr-sp to exchange inter-cloud monitoring and provision information. 
ii.22 reference point: i-psm-sa 
the service automation functional component interacts with peer service management functional 
component through i-psm-sa to access peer csp's oss in order to delivers inter-cloud service automatically. 
ii.23 reference point: i-sa-spm 
the service automation functional component interacts with service policy management functional 
component through i-sa-spm to get inter-cloud service provisioning policies and configuration policies. 
ii.24 reference point: i-sa-psi 
the service automation functional component interacts with peer service integration functional component 
through i-sa-psi to provide automation processing of primary csp switchover and switchback. 
ii.25 reference point: i-psm-spm 
the service policy management functional component interacts with peer service management functional 
component through i -psm-spm to access the oss of a peer csp to manage inter -cloud service policy and 
negotiated provisioning policy. 
ii.26 reference point: i-spm-psi 
the service policy management functional component interacts with peer service integration functional 
component through i-spm-psi to negotiate inter-cloud service policy with peer csps. 
ii.27 reference point: i-spm-aspm 
the service policy manage ment functional component interacts with authorization and security policy 
management functional component through i -spm-aspm to exchange inter -cloud security policy 
information. 
ii.28 reference point: i-slm-ipm 
the service level management functional comp onent interacts with incident and problem management 
functional component through i-slm-ipm to get inter-cloud incident and problem information for inter-cloud 
service level tracking, performance and capacity management. 
