video processing and storage 4 
 
  777 
the traditional vs service is a telecommunication service focusing on video (and audio) application 
technology, which is used to remotely capture multimedia (such as audio, video, image and various alarm 
signals) and present them to end users in a friendly manner (including accessibility aspects). the traditional 
vs system mainly includes six functional entities, which are the centre management unit (cmu), the service 
control unit (scu), the media distribution unit (mdu), the media storage unit (msu), the premises unit (pu) 
and the customer unit (cu). the function description of each functional entity is defined in [itu-t h.626]. 
a visual surveillance cloud storage can provide a shared pool of configurable storage resources  and related 
data st orage functions  to the vs application s. in a cloud storage system, the storage resources can be 
dynamically assigned and reassigned according to the users' demands. the cloud storage part mainly includes 
three functional entities, which are the cloud storage management unit (csmu), the cloud storage data unit 
(csdu) and the cloud storage access unit (csau). 
– csmu is used to provide the management services for the cloud storage system in the vs system. 
– csdu is the data node in a cloud storage system. a number of csdus are organized in a distributed 
way as a storage resource pool by using virtualization technology and the virtualized storage 
resource can be dynamically provided to the users on demand. the csdus are used to stor e the 
massive multimodal data produced by the vs system. 
– csau is the key unit for implementing communication between the csdu and the media data 
related units defined in the traditional  vs system [itu -t h.626]. the main functions of the csau 
include: receiving and responding to the control information of the csmu, receiving and responding 
to the control information of the scu, receiving the media data from mdu or pu, sending the media 
data to the mdu or other related visual surveillance entities, writing the media data into the csdu 
cluster and reading the media data from the csdu cluster. 
7.2 functional entities 
7.2.1 cloud storage management unit 
the c loud storage management unit  (csmu) is used to provide  the management services for  the cloud 
storage system and respond to service requests of the vs system. the main functions of the csmu include 
storage resource management, data management,  user management, service management, log 
management and security control. the csmu is used to achieve collaboration among the different storage 
devices and guarantee better access performance of the multimodal surveillance data. 
7.2.2 cloud storage data unit 
the cloud storage data unit  (csdu) is the data node in a cloud storage system  which is used to stor e the 
massive multimodal data produced by the vs system. a typical visual surveillance cloud storage system has 
a number of csdus, which are organized in a distributed way as a storage resource pool by using virtualization 
technology. t he csdu can be dynamically extended according to the user' s demand and the virtualized 
storage resource can be dynamically provided to the users on demand. the csdu can receive media data 
from the csau and write the data onto its local storage device. in addition, the csdu can read and transmit 
the stored data to the csau according to the data reading requests. 
7.2.3 cloud storage access unit 
the cloud storage access unit (csau) is the key unit for implementing communication between the csdu and 
the media data related units defined in the vs system [itu-t h.626]. as shown in figure 7-2, the functions of 
the csau are divided into three categories, which are the service control function, the media control function 
and the configuration management function. 
