1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
112  
1 scope 
this recommendation provides overview and functional requirements for data storage federation (dsf) 
including benefits, configuration for logical components and ecosystem of data storage federation as well as 
cloud computing based data storage federation. the functional requirements provided in this 
recommendation are derived from use cases. 
2 references 
the following itu-t recommendations and other references contain provisions which, through reference in 
this text, constitute provisions of this recommenda tion. at the time of publication, the editions indicated 
were valid. all recommendations and other references are subject to revision; users of this recommendation 
are therefore encouraged to investigate the possibility of applying the most recent edition of the 
recommendations and other references listed below. a list of the currently valid itu-t recommendations is 
regularly published. the reference to a document within this recommendation does not give it, as a stand -
alone document, the status of a recommendation. 
[itu-t y.3500] recommendation itu-t y.3500 (2014), information technology – cloud computing – 
overview and vocabulary. 
[itu-t y.3502] recommendation itu-t y.3502 (2014), information technology – cloud computing – 
reference architecture. 
3 definitions 
3.1 terms defined elsewhere 
this recommendation uses the following terms defined elsewhere: 
3.1.1 activity [itu-t y.3502]: a specified pursuit or set of tasks. 
3.1.2 cloud computing [itu-t y.3500]: paradigm for enabling network access to a scalable and elastic pool 
of shareable physical or virtual resources with self-service provisioning and administration on-demand. 
note – examples of resources include servers, operating systems, ne tworks, software, applications and storage 
equipment. 
3.1.3 cloud service customer [itu-t y.3500]: party which is in a business relationship for the purpose of 
using cloud services. 
note – a business relationship does not necessarily imply financial agreements. 
3.1.4 cloud service provider [itu-t y.3500]: party which makes cloud services available. 
3.1.5 metadata [b-iso/iec 2382]: data about data or data elements, possibly including their data 
descriptions, and data about data ownership, access paths, access rights and data volatility.  
3.1.6 role [itu-t y.3502]: a set of activities that serves a common purpose. 
3.1.7 sub-role [itu-t y.3502]: a subset of the activities of a given role. 
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation 
this recommendation defines the following terms: 
3.2.1 data storage federation (dsf) : a processing to provide a single virtual volume from the multiple 
heterogeneous data storages using storage virtualization.  
note – in this recommendation, heterogeneous storage refers to dsf local stor age.  
  
