 
   i 
foreword 
cloud services provide on -demand access to 
advanced ict resources, enabling innovators to 
gain new capabilities without investing in new 
hardware or software. cloud concepts are also 
fundamental to the evolution of ict networking, 
helping networks to meet the requirements of an 
increasingly diverse range of ict applications. 
as innovation accelerates in fields such as imt -
2020/5g and the internet of th ings and digital 
transformation takes hold in every industry sector, 
the cloud ecosystem will continue to grow in 
importance to companies large and small, in 
developing as well as developed countries.  
itu standards provide the requirements and 
functional architectures of the cloud ecosystem, 
covering inter - and intra -cloud computing and 
technologies supporting ‘xaas’ (x as a service).   
these standards enable consistent end -to-end, 
multi-cloud management and the monitoring of 
services across different serv ice providers’ 
domains and technologies – they were developed 
in view of the convergence of telecoms and 
computing technologies that characterizes the 
cloud ecosystem. 
recent years have seen software coming to play a 
key role in network management and 
orchestration. concepts rooted in datacentre 
networking are transforming telecoms operations, 
with notable examples found in software -defined 
networking and network function virtualization.   
this convergence of telecoms and computing 
technology is in full fli ght, with our networks 
coming to depend heavily on cloud and very 
modern computing, transport and datacentre 
technologies.  
our networks are transforming to become agile 
all-round players able to perform a wide array of 
specialized functions. cloud is cent ral to this 
agility, enabling the automated provisioning of 
virtualized resources to meet the needs of any ict 
application.  
 
itu standards are supporting industry in 
navigating this transformation. this compendium 
of itu cloud standards will provide ict industry 
players with a valuable point of reference as they 
transform networking operations to take full 
advantage of cloud capabilities. 
 
 
 
chaesub lee 
director  
itu telecommunication standardization bureau 
 

