2 cloud computing management  
 
498  
in the body of this recommendation and its appendixes, the words shall, shall not, should, and may 
sometimes appear, in which case they are to be interpreted, respectively, as is required to, is prohibited from, 
is recommend ed, and can optionally. the appearance of such phrases or keywords  in an appendix or in 
material explicitly marked as informative are to be interpreted as having no normative intent. 
6 overview of e2e cloud service lifecycle management 
nowadays, cloud comp uting technologies are widely used in both information technology (it) and 
communications technology (ct) industries. telecommunication operators use cloud-based technologies to 
deliver cloud services to their users as well as to leverage their telecommunication services and network. this 
allows for automation and acceleration provisioning of cloud services across cloud and non -cloud facilities. 
therefore, effective cloud service lifecycle management becomes one of the most important challenges from 
telecommunication operators' perspectives. 
cloud service lifecycle management integrates and optimizes processes such as service provisioning, service 
assurance, service fulfilment, service charging and service change management for particular workloads 
respecting relevant governance and polices. 
in both telecommunication and cloud computing environments, cloud service lifecycle management has to 
be considered in an e2e manner which means service lifecycle management chains across cloud and non -
cloud facilities. i n practice, cloud service lifecycle management could be achieved by using a s ervice 
management interface (smi) based common model for e2e cloud computing management supported by 
operational support systems (oss), see [itu-t y.3521]. 
the oss encompass the s et of operational related management capabilities, including service catalogue, 
provisioning, monitoring and reporting, service policy management, service automation, etc., in order to 
manage and control cloud services offered to cloud service customers (cscs), see [itu-t y.3502]. oss realize 
the required e2e cloud service lifecycle management functionalities by using service management interfaces 
(smis). these operational related management capabilities can help to achieve  the service lifecycle 
management objective with the pre-defined distributed metadata in each stage. 
the consistent approach to service lifecycle management includes representative definitions for the 
particular stages which cloud service s pass through. this is based on a lifecycle managem ent metadata 
model, which can hold all the data about a service throughout its lifecycle. 
cloud service lifecycle management consists of three parts: 
1) service dependencies management: represents resources that are prerequisites for the service to 
function; 
2) service lifecycle management stages : represents stages through which cloud service passes over 
lifecycle management; 
3) additional information about the service management interface : placeholder for additional 
information but otherwise undefined. 
the development of an e2e cloud service lifecycle management process is based on the following elements 
interacting with each other: 
1) service catalogue, see [itu-t y.3502], [itu-t y.3521]; 
2) service inventory, see [itu-t y.3521]; 
3) smi, see [itu-t y.3521]. 
6.1 cloud service lifecycle metadata 
the cloud service capabilities are exposed and consumed through the functional interfaces (fis) of the service 
while the management or operations of the service are available through the smi. 
the cloud service capabil ities may participate/contribute in many different product offerings that are 
delivered to cscs. they may also have different configuration constraints and policies due to constraints from 
distinct implementation technologies and cscs ' devices that the ser vice is delivered through.  
