 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   55 
figure 7-3 illustrates the entities that are defined for the user view.  
y .3502(14)_f7-3
party
role
aspect
role
sub-role sub-role
activity activity
activityactivity
 
figure 7-3 – user view entities 
7.2.1 cloud computing activities 
a cloud computing activity is defined as a specified pursuit or set of tasks. 
cloud computing activities need to have a purpose and deliver one or more outcomes. 
activities in a cloud computing system are conducted using functional components (see clause 7.3.1). 
cloud computing activities are identified and described in more detail in clause 8. 
7.2.2 roles and sub-roles 
a role is a set of cloud computing activities that serve a common purpose. 
in the ccra, three roles have been defined: 
• cloud service customer (csc) : a party which is in a business relationship for the purpose of using 
cloud services.  
• cloud service provider (csp): a party which makes cloud services available. 
• cloud service partner  (csn): a party which is engaged in support of, or auxiliary to, activities of 
either the cloud service provider or the cloud service customer, or both. 
a sub-role is a subset of the cloud computing activities for a given role. 
different sub-roles can share the cloud computing activities associated with a given role. 
descriptions of the cloud computing roles and sub-roles are provided in clause 8. 
7.2.3 parties 
a party is a natural person or legal person, whether or not incorporated, or a group of either. parties in a 
cloud computing system are its stakeholders. 
a party can assume more than one role at any given point in time and can engage in a specific subset of 
activities of that role. examples of parties include, but are not limited to, large corporations, small and 
medium sized enterprises, government departments, academic institutions and private citizens. 
7.2.4 cloud services 
cloud services  are the essential elements of cloud computing. cloud services are covered in rec. itu -t 
y.3500 | iso/iec 17788. this clause provides a summary. 
cloud services can be described in terms of the cloud capabilities types which they offer, based on the 
resources provided by the cloud service. there are three cloud capabilities types: 
