1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
12  
representative cloud service categories are: 
– communications as a service (caas): a cloud service category in which the capability provided to 
the cloud service customer is real time interaction and collaboration; 
– compute as a service (compaas): a cloud service category in which the capabilities provided to the 
cloud service customer are the provision and use of processing resources needed to deploy and run 
software; 
– data storage as a service (dsaas): a cloud service category in which the capability provided to the 
cloud service customer is the provision and use of data storage and related capabilities; 
– infrastructure as a service (iaas) : a cloud service category  in which the cloud capabilities type  
provided to the cloud service customer is an infrastructure capabilities type; 
– network as a service (naas): a cloud service category in which the capability provided to the cloud 
service customer is transport connectivity and related network capabilities; 
– platform as a service (paas): a cloud service category in which the cloud capabilities type provided 
to the cloud service customer is a platform capabilities type; 
– software as a service (saas): a cloud service category in which the cloud capabilities type provided 
to the cloud service customer is an application capabilities type. 
it is expected that there will be additional cloud service categories (see annex a). this recommendation | 
international standard does not imply that any cloud service category is more important than any other. 
6.5 cloud deployment models 
cloud deployment models  represent how cloud computing  can be organized based on the control and 
sharing of physical or virtual resources.  
the cloud deployment models include: 
– public cloud: cloud deployment model where cloud services are potentially available to any cloud 
service customer and resources are controlled by the cloud service provider. a public cloud may be 
owned, managed, and operated by a business, academic, or government organization, or some 
combination of them. it exists on the premises of the cloud service provider. actual availability for 
specific cloud service customers  may be subject to juris dictional regulations. public clouds have 
very broad boundaries, where cloud service customer  access to public cloud services has few, if 
any, restrictions; 
– private cloud: cloud deployment model where cloud services are used exclusively by a single cloud 
service customer and resources are controlled by that cloud service customer. a private cloud may 
be owned, managed, and operated by the organization itself or a third party and may exist on 
premises or off premises. the cloud service customer may also authorize access to other parties for 
its benefit. private clouds seek to set a narrowly controlled boundary around the private cloud 
based on limiting the customers to a single organization; 
– community cloud : cloud deployment model  where cloud services  exclusively support and are 
shared by a specific collection of cloud service customers  who have shared requirements and a 
relationship with one another, and where resources are controlled by at least one member of this 
collection. a community cloud  may be owned, managed, and operated by one or more of the 
organizations in the community, a third party, or some combination of them, and it may exist on or 
off premises. community clouds limit participation to a group of cloud service customers who have 
a shared set of concerns, in contrast to the openness of public clouds, while community clouds have 
broader participation than private clouds. these shared concerns include, but are not limited to, 
mission, information security requirements, policy, and compliance considerations; 
