5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
928  
table 5-13 – tm forum documents and work items related to cci 
reference name/title status 
tmf gb917 sla management handbook published 
tmf gb960 quick start pack for cloud: trouble to resolve published 
tmf gb963 cloud sla application note published 
tmf tr174 enterprise-grade external compute iaas requirements published 
tmf tr178 enabling end-to-end cloud sla management published 
tmf tr194 muli-cloud service management accelerator pack-introduction published 
5.2 testing groups, open sources and tools for cloud computing testing 
5.2.1 testing groups 
3cpp 
china cloud computing promotion and policy forum (3cpp) is a non-profit organization initiated by the cloud 
industry. the objectives of 3cpp include facilitating the communication between government and the 
industry, and promoting the research on the standards, policies, plans and laws in cl oud computing area in 
china. 3cpp has more than 60 members including chinese cloud service and infrastructure providers. 
3cpp works on cloud computing testing methodology related aspects of cci. 
3cpp initiated "trusted cloud service certification" in 2013,  and established related documents including 
"assessment method for trusted cloud service certification" and "cloud computing service level agreement 
reference framework", etc. in these documents, some evaluation indexes and evaluation methods are 
defined. 
table 5-14 – 3cpp documents and work items related to cci 
reference name/title status 
3cpp tcsa operation method operation method of trusted cloud service assessment published 
3cpp tcsc assessment method assessment method for trusted cloud service certification published 
ydb144-2014 cloud service agreement reference framework published 
http://www.3cpp.org/lab/cloud/trustedcloudev/index.shtml 
cloud plugfests 
the cloud interoperability plugfest series (or "cloud plugfests" for short)  was originated out of 
community-based interoperability efforts started by ogf and snia in 2011, and expanded to include a variety 
of support tools provided by these organizations and etsi to support the community. etsi joined the cloud 
plugfest series as a full supporting partner in 2012. furthermore, cloud plugfests developed into a 
cooperative venue to encour age interoperability on implementations of several relevant cloud software 
stacks, products and multiple cloud-related standards. 
cloud plugfests works on cloud computing testing methodology related aspects of cci. test descriptions for 
cloud interoperability delivered by cloud plugfest  specifies interoperability test descriptions for occi and 
cdmi standards. the test descriptions cover the occi and cdmi protocol specifications where relevant and 
more specifically: 1) occi interoperability testing, to prove that end-to-end functionality is as required by the 
standard. 2) cdmi interoperability testing, to prove that end -to-end functionality is as required by the 
standard. 3) occi + cdmi interworking testing, to prove t hat end-to-end functionality is as required by the 
standards. cloud plugfests works on cloud computing testing methodology related aspects of cci. 
