5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
926  
the poc outlines  testing criteria and procedures for documenting how hypervisor and vm solutions from 
both odca members and non-members interoperated in real-world enterprise cloud scenarios. 
5.1.11 ogf 
the open grid forum (ogf) is a community of users, developers, and vendors leading the global 
standardization effort for distributed computing (including clusters, grids and clouds). 
ogf works on occi that resource management interface related aspects of cci. 
the open cloud computing interface working grou p (occi-wg) of the ogf was established in 2009. the 
purpose of this group is the creation of a practical solution to interface with cloud infrastructures exposed as 
a service. it focuses on the creation of an api for interfacing infrastructure as a service (iaas) cloud computing 
facilities, which is sufficiently complete to allow for the creation of interoperable implementations. 
the occi developed by ogf occi -wg is a set of specifications for cloud computing service providers. occi 
has a set of implementations that act as proofs of concept. it builds upon world wide web fundamentals by 
using the representational state transfer (rest) approach for interacting with services. 
 
figure 5-4 – occi's place in a provider's architecture (reference: gfd-p-r.183 
occi-wg open cloud computing interface – core) 
table 5-11 – ogf documents and work items related to cci 
reference name/title status 
ogf gfd.183 open cloud computing interface - core published 
ogf gfd.184 open cloud computing interface - infrastructure published 
ogf gfd.185 open cloud computing interface - restful http rendering published 
ogf gfd.192 web services agreement specification (ws-agreement) published 
ogf gfd.193 ws-agreement negotiation published 
5.1.12 snia 
snia is a sdo, published the cdmi as an snia architecture (april 2010) and also moving to standardization. 
snia is also a trade association for storage industry promoting the cloud storage market overall and 
promoting the adoption of the cdmi standard, and promotin g interoperability implementations (plugfest, 
test suites, conformance programs). snia also produces open source software; cdmi reference 
implementation is available under bsd license. 

