 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   289 
– connectivity between  cscs and csp. by means of this connectivity, cscs can use, operate, and 
manage their cloud services provided by csps. cscs do not know on which csps their services 
actually run, but network connectivity facilitates access of cscs to the appropriate csp. 
figure 8-5 illustrates an example of configuration involving a software as a service (saas) csp and multiple 
infrastructure as a service (iaas) csps forming an inter-cloud federation. the saas csp uses virtual machines 
(vms) provided by iaas csps which are members of the inter -cloud federation in order to provide saas 
services (e.g., applications such as e-commerce) to its saas cscs.  
saas csp
iaas csp
(primary)
iaas csp a
(secondary)
app
vm
iaas csp b
app
vm
network y
network x
network z
iaas csp c
app
vm
vm
vm
vm
vm
app
network q
app
4 vms
network p
saas
csc 1
saas
csc 2
saas
csc 3
saas
csc 4
end-to-end connectivity
app: application
vm:  virtual machine
inter-cloud federation
y .3511(14)_f8-5
 
figure 8-5 – view highlighting actual running vm and application locations 
for the sake of simplicity, figure 8 -5 also shows network connectivity between different cscs and csps 
(illustrated with "network" boxes). these "network" boxes may be under the responsibility of third -party 
providers different from the iaas csps and saas csps, or may be provided by the iaas and saas csps 
themselves. these "networks" are involved in the support of end-to-end network connectivity (between the 
saas csc and the "application" running in the ia as csps). network connectivity supported by these 
"networks" may be provided as a cloud service of the naas service category. network capabilities for the 
support of naas service category are for further study. 
by means of the connectivity provided by these networks, the saas cscs can access the iaas csp on  which 
the vms providing the service run. the saas cscs do not know on which iaas csps the vms exist, but the 
networks facilitate each access from saas cscs to the appropriate iaas csp. 
for the iaas primary csp, in order to achieve optimal resource use, it is desirable to handle information about 
vm availability as well as their connectivity (including bandwidth, quality of service (qos) and cost). the iaas 
csp may choose to provide both computing and network resources jointly. 
multiple service offering sce narios including network contributions to the cloud services are described in 
appendix iii. 
8.2.4 interactions in the case of inter-cloud federation 
figure 8-6 shows the interactions involving multiple csps in the case of the inter-cloud federation pattern. in 
the inter-cloud federation, secondary csps provide their resources as one kind of service to the primary csp. 
