xaas 3 
 
  719 
 
figure 7-6 – operational support systems functional components  
extended for bdaas 
7.3.3.1 data life-cycle monitoring functional component 
the data life-cycle is a sequence of steps from the initial creation or capture of the data to the final archive 
and/or deletion at the end of its useful life. the data life -cycle monitoring functional component is 
responsible for monitoring data availability, preservation and usage freque ncy during the  entire data life -
cycle from creating, storing, using, sharing, archiving, and destroying data. 
this functional component is responsible for: 
– monitoring data availability-related information such as expiration date, sensitivity level and sharing 
right of data; 
– monitoring data preservation -related information (e.g. , created time) and operation (e.g. , data 
creation and data deletion). the monitoring results gui de the data archive, deletion and recovery 
based on data preservation policy. for example, if archived data have expired, it needs to be deleted; 
– checking the frequency of data usage. according to the different frequency of data usage, data 
processing an d data management schemes are adjusted in the process of data life -cycle. for 
example, in the data storage process, data that are accessed more frequently will be stored on 
faster, but more expensive storage media, while less critical data will be stored o n cheaper, but 
slower media. 
7.3.3.2 data policy management functional component 
the data policy management functional component is responsible for creating, modifying and deleting data 
policies, such as data provenance sharing policy, data license policy and data preservation policy. the bdaas 
service provider applies data policies to the processes of data collection, data processing, data storage, etc. 
this functional component provides: 
– the ability to create data policies, such as the creation of data sharing policy, data license policy and 
data price policy according to  various usage requirements. for example, for the transmission of 
sensitive data, an encrypted transmission policy is created; 
 note 1 – data sharing policy is used to determine whether the data source can be shared or not according to 
the security level of the data. 
 note 2 – data license policy is used to set up application conditions, period of validity and authentication 
method for different licenses. 
 note 3 – data price policy is used to set reasonable prices according to data volume, data sources and other 
conditions. in some cases, data prices should be set by negotiating with data users.  

