xaas 3 
 
  737 
7.4 level 4: scalable saas application 
most public web service providers serve an arbitrarily large number of customers as multiple tenants . 
consequently, each layer of the underlying platform architecture, from hardware to application, is required 
to be easily scalable for applications and services as shown in figure 5. hence, more tenants and more per-
tenant users can be added without requiring additional re-architecting of the applications. 
 
figure 5 – architecture of scalable saas application 
for the application layer, when there is a new tenant, one or more application instances will be generated 
according to the tenant -specific requirements, or a suitable existing instance will be chosen in accordance 
with the requirement based on load balance mechan ism. all the instances of the applications in such an 
environment are required to be created dynamically. 
the underlying resources of scala ble saas applications also support elastic  scaling. any hardware, 
middleware, software, and data are needed to be managed in the resource pool. the applications get all 
resources they need from the resource pool dynamically. new resources can be added with out any 
recombination or re-architecting when needed. 
there are multiple design considerations about the dynamic scal ing technologies, including scaling choices, 
resource allocation, the service level agreement (sla), etc. a new tenant can be executed as a single instance 
or can coexist with other tenants on a shared instance. different instances, which run different typ es of 
tenants, can be allocated to varied resources. the saas environment provider should consider different slas 
for different tenants when using load balance and shared resources. 
8 security requirements for saas application environment 
figure 6 shows the relationship among  the cloud service customer ( csc), csp and csn with respect to the 
saas application environment, in which csp and csn p lay different roles in performing different functions. 
csn can serve csp as a  content provider, software pro vider, system integrator or auditor , while both csn 
and csp can develop applications for csc. csp and csn have interfaces with the saas application 
environment, while csc only interacts with applications built upon it. as a result, this recommendation 
focuses mainly on the security requirements of the saas application environment for csp and csn in a 
different maturity model. the security requirements for the saas application environment originate from csp 
and csn as they need a saas application environment  to have the capability to meet their demands on 
security. 

