cloud computing management 2 
 
  487 
appendix ii 
 
multi-cloud end to end service management 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
the following use case describes the challenges associated with multi-cloud end to end service management. 
figure ii.1 illustrates an example where a cloud voip service is provided by csp1 to csp2 that is bundling it 
with other services and reselli ng a package to a cloud service  customer (csc). even if csp1 runs network 
services such as a content delivery network (cdn), csp2 provides network connectivity services to the end 
user through its own core networks (e.g., ip/mpls) and access networks (e.g., the backhaul, wifi, 3g/4g/lte 
and enterprise lan/wan infrastructures).  
when a csc, such as an it department, has a problem with the cloud voip quality of service, it contacts csp2 
using a customer relations management (crm) system. the csp2 support agen t should have the capability 
to see the health and welfare of the voip service from a holistic (end  to end) perspective. this requires 
visibility into the voip and network resource management systems of both csp1 and csp2. 
as shown in figure ii.1, there are the two types of connection paths: 
1. service delivery path  – used by the functional interfaces of the services to deliver the combined 
service value to the customer. in this use case, cloud voip and ip/mpls are combined to create a 
premium ict bundle. 
2. service management path(s)  – all of the logical management paths that perform operations and 
maintenance functions such as provisioning, service assurance and charging/billing of the relevant 
services to this bundle. 
y.3520(13)_fii.1
csp1
hosted v oip service
administration
provisioning
charging/usage billing
customer trouble
reports/slas
order entry and
management
composite serviceip mpls
user
crm portal
csp2
premium
uc service
administration administration
provisioning
service assuranceservice assurance
charging/usage
 
figure ii.1 – managing multi-cloud services end to end 
the delivery path for the service, via their functional interfaces, is not addressed by this use case.  
what is addressed is efficient implementation of all of the resource management functions depicted b y the 
lines between the customer relationship management (crm) portal and the administrative, provisioning, 
service assurance and charging functions for each component (voip, etc.) that makes up a complete service. 
this challenge, associated with effective cloud resource management, is a major technical issue and can be 
a limiting factor for the adoption of cloud computing based solutions. in order for the composite cloud 
computing services to work effectively, all the prerequisite services of both csp1 and  csp2 must function 
properly.  
