xaas 3 
 
  735 
the typical  client-server model applications can be easily transform ed into custom saas applications by 
moving servers to the cloud with relatively little modification. the applications suitable for this scenario are 
usually developed with special requirements from the enterprise or organization. top consideration will be 
given to security in the system itself, thus the usual way is to group a set of physical machines into a private 
zone and to deploy a data management system (which provides ab stracted methods of persistence and 
operations for different kinds of data) and associated software on it. the system is solely for internal usage 
with strict access control. the template of application instance is the same for all customers, and it provides 
limited configuration ability. however, the instance for each customer is totally independent of any other 
instance. 
7.2 level 2: configurable saas application 
for some commonly used applications that are not customized, such as self-service website building system, 
saas application providers  offer common templates for these applications and several sets of run -time 
environment for the instances of these applications. based on the same template , customers are able to 
create multiple separate d instances o f the application  by configuring the application's appearance and 
behaviour, which are  deployed and executed on individual virtual or physical machine s to meet their 
customized requirements. application instances are isolated from each other.  the architecture is shown in 
figure 3. 
 
figure 3 – architecture of configurable saas application 
the configurable saas application has the following characteristics: 
1) application in the initial deployment is a copy of a standard product, and tenants configure the 
application to suit their own requirements. however, the configuration options of the product are 
limited. 
2) for saas application providers, any modifications to the product code s can be easily applied to all 
tenants immediately. however, only a little update or optimization to the product codes are suitable 
for each instance because the forward compatibility problem incurred by the update or optimization 
may occur. 

