 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   305 
i.6 market transactions in inter-cloud intermediary pattern 
table i.6 shows inter-cloud use case for market transactions in inter-cloud intermediary pattern. 
table i.6 – inter-cloud use case: market transactions in inter-cloud intermediary pattern 
use case  
use case title inter-cloud use case: market transactions in inter-cloud intermediary pattern 
relevant roles csp and csc 
use case description – the primary csp in an inter-cloud intermediary pattern (csp-intermediary) 
mediates between csps meeting the csc's quality requirements and provides 
the list of selected csps to the csc. 
– the csp-intermediary coordinates multiple services offered by other csps.  
information flow  – the slas of the csps are submitted to the csp-intermediary in advance. 
– a csc requests the csp-intermediary to select csps that provide a service 
which satisfies the csc's quality requirements. 
– the csp-intermediary compares the csc quality requirements with th e slas 
of other csps. then the csp-intermediary discovers and reserves the csp 
resources that meet the csc's quality requirements. 
– the csp-intermediary returns the csp candidate list to the csc. 
– the csc selects a csp or csps on the list. 
– the csp-intermediary sends a cloud service adaptation request to the 
selected csp to invoke the service and adapt it to concrete cloud services and 
resources. 
– the csp returns an adaptation response to the csp-intermediary. 
high-level figure describing the 
use case 
y .3511(14)_fi.tab6
csc
csp
csp
csp
csp
(intermediary)
3. c-csp intermediary
informs the csc of
the candidate csps.
1. the csc requests the service
from csp-intermediary. the request
includes csc's quality requirements.
4. the csc chooses 
some of the csps 
and accesses them.
2. csp-intermediary compares the quality requirements 
(including priorities) of csc with the slas of
multiple csps. the csps reserve the resources.
 
derived requirements for 
cloud capability 
the system is required to support: 
– policy negotiation including sla management among the multiple csps 
including csp-intermediary in a pre-established group; 
– discovery, reservation, use and release of cloud resources in a dynamic 
manner (i.e., not relying on the pre-configuration) on other csps within the 
federation; 
– creation of the network connections in a dynamic manner (i.e., not relying on 
the pre-configuration) from the csc to the selected csp that provides the 
resources; 
– flexible reallocation of applications, to meet requirements at different stages 
in its lifecycle, across multiple csps. 
  
