video processing and storage 4 
 
  775 
3.1.6 functional entity [itu-t y.2012]: an entity that comprises an indivisible set of spec ific functions. 
functional entities are logical concepts, while groupings of functional entities are used to describe practical, 
physical implementations. 
3.1.7 interface [itu-t y.101]: a shared boundary between two functional units. 
note – an interface is defined by various characteristics pertaining to the functions, physical interconnections, signal 
exchanges and other characteristics as appropriate. 
3.1.8 premises unit [itu-t h.626]: a device located at the remote part of a visual surveillance system and 
used to capture multimedia information (such as audio, video, image, alarm signal , etc.) from a surveilled 
object. 
3.1.9 reference point  [itu-t y.2012]: a conceptual point at the conjunction of two non -overlapping 
functional entities that can be used t o identify the type of information passing between these functional 
entities. 
note – a reference point may correspond to one or more physical interfaces between pieces of equipment.  
3.1.10 service [itu-t y.101]: a structure set of capabilities intended to support applications. 
3.1.11 visual surveillance  [itu-t h.626] : a telecommunication service focusing on video (but including 
audio) application technology, which is used to remotely capture multimedia (such as a udio, video, image, 
alarm signal, etc.) and present them to the end user in a user -friendly manner, based on a managed  
broadband network with ensured quality, security and reliability. 
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation 
this recommendation defines the following terms: 
3.2.1 cloud storage access unit (csau): a device located at a cloud storage system in visual surveillance. 
the csau is the key unit for implementing communication between the csdu and  the mdu, pu and the 
other media data related  units defined in  visual surveillance. the functions of the  csau include service 
control function, media control function and configuration management function. 
3.2.2 cloud storage data unit (csdu): a series of devices located at a  cloud storage  system in visual 
surveillance. the csdu is the data node in a cloud storage system that is used to store the massive multimodal 
data produced by the visual surveillance system. a typical visual surveillance cloud storage system consists 
of a  number of csdus, which is organized in a distributed way . the csdu can be dynamically extended 
according to the user' s demand. the csdu can receive the media data from the csau and write the data 
onto its local storage device. in addition, the csdu can read and transmit the stored data to the csau 
according to the data reading requests. 
3.2.3 cloud storage management unit (csmu): a device  located at the central part of a cloud storage 
system in visual surveillance. the csmu is used to provide  the management services of the cloud storage 
system and respond to the service requests of the visual surveillance system. the main functions of the csmu 
include supporting storage resource management, data management,  user management, service 
management, log management and security control. 
4 abbreviations and acronyms 
this recommendation uses the following abbreviations and acronyms: 
cmu centre management unit 
csau cloud storage access unit 
csdu cloud storage data unit 
csmu cloud storage management unit 
cu customer unit 
ipu intelligent premises unit 
