 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   153 
appendix i 
 
use cases of cloud service brokerage 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
table i.1 – a general use case for cloud service brokerage 
title a general use case for cloud service brokerage. 
description (1) a csp determines to sell cloud services though a csn: cloud service broker and accesses 
a workspace operated by the csn: cloud service broker such as a web portal by using 
an authorized account. 
(2) the csp registers cloud service list to a product catalogue of the csn: cloud service 
broker though a user interface of the workspace. 
(3) a csc accesses the workspace by using an authorized account to find and use a cloud 
service through the csn: cloud service broker. 
(4) the csc requests a cloud service with service requirements to the csn: cloud service 
broker. then, the csn: cloud service broker searches the best -matched cloud service 
out of the csn: cloud service broker's product catalogue. 
(5) the csn: cloud service broker notifies the searched result and suggests detailed cloud 
service conditions to the csc. once the csc agrees with the suggested condition, the 
csn: cloud service broker makes a contract with the csc for brokering a cloud service. 
(6) on behalf of the csc, the csn: cloud service broker requests to launch a cloud service 
to the csp who can accommodate the service requirements. 
(7) the requested csp launches a cloud service according to the service requirements 
(8) the csp informs on a launch of the cloud service and provides information for accessing 
the cloud service such as service access point, id and password to the csn: cloud service 
broker. 
(9) the csn: cloud service broker forwards the access information to the authorized csc. 
(10) using the access information, the csc accesses and utilizes the launched cloud service.  
roles/sub-roles csp, csn: cloud service broker, csc 
figure 
   
pre-conditions 
(optional) 
the csp is a member of the csn: cloud service broker and has an account for accessing csb 
workspace. 
the csc is a member of the csn: cloud service broker and has an account for accessing csb 
workspace. 
post-conditions 
(optional) 
the csn: cloud service broker monitors status of the brokered service to comply with the 
contracted service agreement. 

