3 xaas  
 
700  
appendix ii 
 
modelling usage example of naas service, naas service operational policy and 
naas resource model 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
ii.1 introduction 
in practice, a naas csp can virtualize cloud resources into multiple isolated virtual private clouds (vpcs) and 
provide them to naas cscs. a naas csc can establish and manage the network easily in a typical vpc, for 
example: deploying or removing virtualized network devices (e.g., vrouter and vswitch), adjusting the 
topology of vpc networks, specifying packet forwar ding policies, and deploying or removing virtualized 
network services (e.g., load balancer, firewalls, databases, dns). the naas functionalities that the naas csc 
can obtain are virtualized and actually performed by vms located on compute servers, which may be located 
in different geographically distributed data centres, connected through physical or overlay networks. 
the manipulation of the virtualized vpc network may also affect the configuration of physical networks. for 
example, when two new vms associated to a given vpc are deployed in two different data centres, the vpc 
control mechanism needs to generate a vpn between these two data centres for the internal vpc 
communications. therefore, the control mechanism for a vpc should be able to adjust the und erlying 
network at runtime when the naas csc requests changes to the vpc network or service deployment. 
when the naas csc moves from one location to another, which is near to another naas csp's data centre, 
and in the case the network load between these tw o data centres is low, naas csc's vm(s) should be 
migrated to the new data centre in order to allow for a better user experience. 
as illustrated by figure ii.1, a vpc corresponds to a combinat ion of cloud computing resources with a vpn 
infrastructure to give naas cscs the abstraction of a private set of cloud resources that are transparently and 
securely connected to their own infrastructure. vpcs are created by taking dynamically configurable pools of 
cloud resources and connecting them to enterprise sites with vpns. 
 
figure ii.1 – example of vpc and vpn relationship 
ii.2 modelling usage 
based on the description given in clause ii.1, the vpc service can be modelled as a vpc naas service model  
based on its concrete service attributes, including service id, tenant id, access bandwidth, access virtualized 
network device, attached virtual service, etc. 
the initial provisioning configuration can be generated based on the vpc naas service model, together with 
the corresponding naas service operational policy model, which includes the following aspects: 
– the required services on data centres according to naas csc's profile are allocated; 
– services located in multiple distributed data centres are interconnected via e.g., vpns; 

