5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
812  
i.2.6 use case of virtual home gateway in trusted inter-cloud 
this use case illustrates management aspect of trusted inter -cloud between csc and csp or between csps. 
the federation pattern of inter-cloud used to illustrate the use case is an example only. 
table i.2.6 – virtual home gateway in trusted inter-cloud 
title virtual home gateway in trusted inter-cloud  
description – a large group of cscs requests from csp(naas) secured access to internet 
with parental control service. a csp(naas) serves such service over virtual 
home gateway (vhgw) facilities using network functions virtualization (nfv) 
and sdn technologies.  
– the csp(naas) forms an inter-cloud federation pattern within a group of peer 
csps due to lack of own resources for request realization. according to the 
management of sensitive csc's data, the csp(naas) establish a trusted 
relationship between csps(paas) and csps(saas) involved in federation.  
– the csp(naas) forms service chaining on parental control service from a set of 
network virtual functions (e.g., virtual firewall (vfw), virtual network address 
translation (vnat), virtual load balancer (vlb)) hosted by csp(paas) and 
csp(saas). 
– the csp(naas) monitors quality of service chaining and in case of quality 
drops below threshold or in case of the realization of particular key 
performance indicators (kpis) (e.g., low power consumption, service 
balancing), the service is automatically reallocated within the  federation, 
respecting policy and governance roles applied. 
roles csc, csp(naas), csp(paas), csp(saas), csp(xaas) 
figure (optional) 
 
pre-conditions (optional) – the csp(naas) and csp(paas) and csp(saas) are in a trusted inter-cloud 
relationship. 
post-conditions (optional) – the csp(naas) guarantees governance policy of saas.  
– the csp(naas) establishes service chaining between csp(paas) and csp(saas). 
– the csp(naas) reallocate service between csps among federation in case 
service quality drops below threshold or in case of the realization of particular 
kpis (e.g., low power consumption, service balancing). 
derived requirements – policies and governance roles 
– confidentiality of csc's data  
– service statistics 
– annotation (tagging) of cloud workloads 
i.2.7 use case of distributed document exchange system in trusted inter-cloud 
this use case illustrates governance aspect of trusted inter-cloud between csc and csp or between csps. the 
federation pattern of inter-cloud used to illustrate the use case is an example only. 

