security 7 
 
  1075 
annex a 
 
cloud service extended control set 
(this annex forms an integral part of this recommendation | international standard.) 
this a nnex provides additional control objectives, controls and implementation guidance as an extended 
control set for cloud services. iso/iec 27002 control objectives related to these controls are not repeated. 
an organization intending to implement these controls in an information security management system (isms) 
that is to be conformant to iso/iec 27001, should extend its statement of applicability (soa) by including the 
controls stated in this annex. 
cld.6.3 relationship between cloud service customer and cloud service provider 
objective: to clarify the relationship regarding shared roles and responsibilities between the cloud service 
customer and the cloud service provider for information security management. 
cld.6.3.1 shared roles and responsibilities within a cloud computing environment 
control 
responsibilities for shared information security roles in the use of the cloud service should be allocated to 
identified parties, documented, communicated and implemented by both the cloud service customer and 
the cloud service provider. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider 
the cloud service customer should define or extend its 
existing policies and procedures in accordance with its 
use of cloud services, and make cloud service users 
aware of their roles and responsibilities in the use of the 
cloud service. 
the cloud service provider should document and 
communicate its information security capabilities, roles, 
and responsibilities for the use of its cloud service, along 
with the information security roles and responsibilities 
for which the cloud service customer would need to 
implement and manage as part of its use of the cloud 
service. 
other information for cloud services 
in cloud computing, roles and responsibilities are typically divided between employees of the cloud service 
customer and employees of the cloud service provider. the allocation of  roles and responsibilities  should 
take into consideration the cloud service customer data and the cloud service customer applications for 
which the cloud service provider is a custodian. 
cld.8.1 responsibility for assets 
the objective specified in clause 8.1 of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
cld.8.1.5 removal of cloud service customer assets 
control 
assets of the cloud service customer that are on the cloud service provider 's premises should be removed, 
and returned if necessary, in a timely manner upon termination of the cloud service agreement. 
