intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  897 
table ii.14 – test case: physical machine status inquiring 
physical machine configuration inquiring test description 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc queries the cpu’s cores number of the physical 
machine from the csp. 
 
2 check the csc receives the information of a particular physical 
machine's cpu cores number that is consistent with the cpu 
cores number of the physical machine. 
 
3 stimulus the csc queries memory size of the physical machine from 
the csp. 
 
4 check the csc receives the information of a particular physical 
machine's memory size that is consistent with the memory 
size of the physical machine. 
 
5 stimulus the csc queries the disk size of the physical machine from 
the csp. 
 
6 check the csc receives the information of a particular physical 
machine's disk size that is consistent with the disk size of the 
physical machine. 
 
7 stimulus the csc queries the nic number of the physical machine 
from the csp. 
 
8 check the csc receives the information of a particular physical 
machine's nic number that is consistent with the nic 
number of the physical machine. 
 
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
ii.2 test cases for storage service interoperability testing between the csc and csp 
ii.2.1 test case: storage migration 
table ii.15 shows the test case for storage migration. 
table ii.15 – test case: storage migration 
storage migration test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc migrates data of the vm to different storage media without any 
loss. 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.2.1 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc migrates the vm's data from local storage to shared 
storage.  
 
2 check the vm uses the shared storage after migration is done 
without affecting the service running on the vm. 
 
3 stimulus the csc migrates the vm's data from shared storage to local 
storage. 
 
4 check the vm uses the local storage after migration is done 
without affect the service running on the vm. 
 
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
