3 xaas  
 
690  
the nc service level management functional component manages the capacity and performance relating to 
nc. this can involve the application of policies (e.g., a placement rule which aims to avoid single points of 
failure). 
the nc service level management functional component obtains monitoring in formation from the nc 
monitoring and reporting functional component in order to measure and record kpis for the nc. nc capacity 
can be allocated or de-allocated based on the basis of these kpis. 
the nc service level management functional component also keeps track of the overall state of an allocated 
nc capacity and available network capacity. the comparison of allocated capacity against performance kpis 
can assist in the identification of current or potential bottl enecks, in support of capacity planning. t his 
includes the management of connectivity capacity and the forwarding of information related to nc capacity 
and usage reporting. 
8.3.5.7 nc incident and problem management 
the nc incident and problem management f unctional component provides capabilities for the capture of 
incident or problem reports related to nc and managing those reports through to resolution. 
8.3.5.8 nc inventory 
the nc inventory functional component keeps track of the allocated nc including th e associated 
characteristics. 
8.3.6 oss functional components for physical resources 
note – this clause is out of the scope of this recommendation. 
8.4 functional components for naas development support 
refer to clause 7.9 for a description of development functionalities for naas products and services. 
the functional components for naas development support include the development support functional 
components described in clause 9.2.5.5 of [itu-t y.3502]: 
– developer environment functional component. provides the capabilities to support the 
development of the naas service software implementation including the development of the 
following software components: 
• network function software. a network function software can be developed in such a way that 
features and capability of the network function is provided by elementary network functions; it 
can also be provided by composition of other developed network functions; 
• network services; 
• network connectivity applications software (such as for sdn applications). 
– the development environment functiona l component includes capabilities for the creation of the 
configuration metadata for the above software components as well as scripts and related artefacts 
that are then used by the provider's operational support s ystems to provision and configure the 
network function, network service or network connectivity application. 
– build management functional component. supports the building of a ready-to-deploy naas software 
package for network functions, network services a nd network connectivity applications which can 
be passed to the naas csp for deployment into the naas cloud service environment. the software 
package consists of both the service implementation software and also the configuration metadata 
and scripts. 
– test management functional component. supports the execution of test cases against any build of 
the naas service implementation. the test management functional component produces reports of 
the executed tests and these can be communicated to the naas csp along with a build of the naas 
service implementation. 
the functional components for naas development support (dev -naas products and services) are shown in 
figure 8-8. 
