7 security  
 
1022 
rpo recovery point objective 
rto recovery time objectives 
saas software as a service 
sla service level agreement 
sms short message service 
sso single sign-on 
vdc virtual data centre 
vm virtual machine 
5 conventions 
none. 
6 overview 
with the rapid expansion of the cloud computing market and the establishment of industry chains, security 
issues continue to be a major and important topic that cannot be ignored. cloud computing systems are 
facing more challenges than traditional information technology (it) systems beca use they are more 
complicated, and huge amounts of users' private data have been stored in the cloud. both security and 
privacy protection are the most important factors when customers evaluate the use of cloud computing 
services. 
more and more cloud servi ces will be supplied, and methods to guarantee the reliability of these cloud 
services have become more urgent. it is therefore necessary to thoroughly investigate the operational 
security of cloud computing to provide guidelines for cloud service providers (csps). the guidelines can help 
csps reduce the security risk from improper operation, unreasonable business design, etc., and improve the 
overall security level of operation for cloud computing services. 
from the perspective of csps, the main security challenges of operational security are described below: 
1) challenges to the maintenance of cloud computing infrastructure: when cloud computing provides 
the users with it infrastructure, a platform or software as a service, the stability, reliability and safe 
delivery of cloud services are a prerequisite to carry out business. in order to guarantee that 
customer service is not interrupted, the infrastructure of the cloud system should be ensured for a 
reliable and stable operation, and the necessary precautions should be adopted to protect the safety 
and privacy of user's information. even in the event of a small failure, many cscs  may experience 
difficulties such as business interruption or data loss. csps should seriously consider how to quickly 
locate the faults and automatically switch to the backup system seamlessly to protect the availability 
of customers' service. 
2) challenges to the management mode of cloud computing: the characteristics of cloud computing, 
such as cross -regional services, huge comp uting power, separation of data management and 
ownership,  distinguishes it  from the traditional it services. these challenges require effective 
management and co-operation between branch nodes to solve security problems by csps. for csps, 
some necessary technical measures, such as security configuration management, etc., a reasonable 
distribution of management authority, and a set of effective management rules and processes will 
be needed to prevent the leakage of user data. for example, csps should take measures to prevent 
the internal administrators from overstepping their authority so as to prevent users from abusing 
the cloud computing resources. 
overall, for the complete security of cloud applications operated on the cloud infrastructure, cs ps should 
adopt different technological methods and management mechanisms not only to maintain the security, 
stability and availability of the cloud infrastructure, but also to protect the business continuity and the user 
data of the cloud services operated. 
