1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
270  
i.1.1 infrastructure sub-layer 
this sub-layer consists of the following 3 parts: 
– the s torage infrastructure is composed of common used storage devices such as fibre channel 
storage devices, nas and internet small computer system interface (iscsi) [b-ietf rfc 3720] storage 
devices, as well as some related supporting appliances, such as switches for storage . storage 
infrastructure will typically consist of several distributed working nodes to support high availability 
and reliability. a working node can include a virtual volume management element, an nas and a 
distributed file system  (dfs) device. another type of working node can includ e a virtual volume 
management element, a san and a block control device. 
– the backup infrastructure is composed of a physical type library, a virtual type library, a database 
and related software. 
– the infrastructure monitor cluster is composed of many servers which manage and monitor all kinds 
of storage and backup devices, repair related links and check the redundancy and carry out 
centralized management. it can include a global schedule function to provide the resources location 
in the storage in frastructure depending on the received accessing requests and associated 
requested resources. the servers typically support distributed hash table (dht) networking to 
provide a general accessing interface for name space management, load balance, metadata 
management, routing management and duplication management.  the infrastructure monitor 
cluster can access virtual volume management elements of the storage infrastructure to realize 
unified volume management and policy management. 
i.1.2 presenting sub-layer 
this sub-layer is the core of the service logic of the cloud storage system. it provides several storage services, 
such as services based on san or nas, as well as backup disaster recovery services. 
san and nas-based services provide key storage services f or the management of cloud storage, detection 
and repair of the faulty links, status monitoring and qos. 
backup disaster recovery services supply high -level data protection making unnecessary the use of a 
specialized disaster recovery network. 
i.1.3 access sub-layer 
this sub-layer consists of storage-based application interfaces, network access equipment, user identification 
functions and other relevant access functions. once authenticated and authorized, users make use of the 
cloud storage services, such as those based on the network file system (nfs) [b-ietf rfc 3530] or iscsi [b-
ietf rfc 3720]. 
the access sub -layer connects users to the presenting sub -layer through the use of private or public 
networks. 
