3 xaas  
 
686  
– providing reports on the behaviour of the naas csp's system, which can take the form of alerts for 
behaviour which has a time -sensitive aspect (e.g., the occurrence of a fault,  the completion of a 
task), or it can take the form of aggregated forms of historical data (e.g.,  network function usage 
data); 
– storage and retrieval of network functions monitoring and event data as logging records. 
there is a need to guarantee the avai lability, confidentiality and integrity of the logging records held by the 
nf monitoring and reporting functional component. 
8.3.3.4 nf policy management 
the nf policy management functional component provides capabilities to define, store and retrieve policies 
that apply to network functions. policies can include business, technical, security, privacy and certification 
policies that apply to network functions and their usage by naas cscs. 
some policies can be general and apply to a network function irrespective of the customer concerned. other 
policies can be specific to a particular customer. 
8.3.3.5 nf automation 
the nf automation functional component provides capabilities for network functions' delivery including the 
management and execution of network functions' templates and the orchestration of network functions. the 
nf automation functional component holds the network functions templates which define the cloud 
computing activities and workflows required to provision and deliver a specific entry in the nf catalogue. 
network function provisioning can be automated in order to support scalable resource operations, including 
configuration and charging. 
network function administration activities of the naas csc can be capable of being automated and need not 
require any intervention by the naas csp. 
the nf automation functional component works with the nf provisioning functional component to achieve 
its goals. 
8.3.3.6 nf level management 
the nf level management functional component provides capabilities for man aging the service levels of a 
particular network function, aiming to ensure that the network function meets the requirements of the sla 
which applies to the related network service. 
the nf level management functional component manages the capacity and perf ormance relating to a 
network function. this can involve the application of network function policies (e.g., a placement rule which 
aims to avoid single points of failure). 
the nf leve l management functional component obtains monitoring information from th e nf monitoring 
and reporting functional component in order to measure and record kpis for the network function. capacity 
of a network function can be allocated or de-allocated based on the basis of these kpis. 
the nf level management functional component also keeps track of the overall state of allocated and 
available resources. the comparison of allocated capacity against network function performance kpis can 
assist in the identification of current or potential bottlenecks, in support of capacity planning. 
8.3.3.7 nf incident and problem management 
the nf incident and problem management functional component provides capabilities for the capture of 
network function incident or problem reports and managing those reports through to resolution. 
network function incidents and problems can be detected and reported by the naas csp's systems, or they 
can be detected and reported by naas cscs. 
