xaas 3 
 
  555 
• virtualization infrastructure 
 the main role of the virtualization infrastructure is to support hardware and software resources and 
create virtual resources (e.g., vms). the virtualization infrastructure can use a virtua lization 
function, called a hypervisor, to manage hardware resource  efficiently. a hypervisor can abstract 
physical hardware resources and assign them dynamically to a virtual desktop. in this case, the end 
user's application runs on the virtual desktops p rovided by the virtualization infrastructure. the 
virtualization infrastructure supports high availability features (e.g., multiple vms are created from 
the same vm template) with pre-defined configuration parameters. 
• virtual desktop delivery 
 this compo nent is responsible for encapsulation and delivery of either access  to an entire 
information system environment, or the environment itself to a remote daas client through the 
network. a protocol for virtual desktop delivery provides the communication channels between the 
daas client and the daas platform in order to transfer all the interaction information. the interaction 
information includes display information, control and configuration information, monitoring 
information, etc. 
 daas can be serviced by either a personalized virtual desktop or by a virtual desktop from a shared 
pool. in the case of a personal virtual desktop, there is a one -to-one mapping between a virtual 
desktop and a cloud service user. each user is assigned a virtual desktop that can b e personalized 
and customized. these changes are available to the u ser each time that user logs on to his or her 
personal virtual desktop. for a shared virtual desktop pool, a single os image is replicated across 
many vms and users can reuse a single vm ov er time. as users connect to the shared virtual pool, 
they are dyna mically assigned a virtual desktop. a s hared virtual pool allows for uniformed 
experience across all end users, while combined with simplified administration means. 
6.3 interaction between daas components 
to illustrate the daas operation concepts based on figure 6-3, the various steps of an example interaction 
for daas are shown as follows:  
• a daas client accesses a connection manager through a security protocol (such as secure shell or 
transport layer security) and the connection manager  validates the us er with a user -id and 
associated password. 
• the connection manager identifies a corresponding user profile and, in order to assign appropriate 
virtual resources in the virtualization infrastructure, a provisioning operation helps the connection 
manager to allocate the virtual resources that satisfies the user's hardware configuration and is 
optimal to the computing environment. 
• if there are no proper virtual resources, the connection mana ger requests the virtualization 
infrastructure to create such virtual resources according to the hardware configuration requested 
by the user or a pre-defined hardware configuration. 
• after such virtual resources are assigned or created, the connection ma nager applies the user 
profile, including installation of os and applications, to construct a virtual desktop. 
• a connection to deliver a corresponding virtual desktop is created in the virtualization infrastructure 
and the information of the connection is dispatched to the connection manager. 
• the connection manager sends the connection information to the daas client and the daas client 
connects to the virtual desktop in the virtualization infrastructure. 
• the daas client communicates with the virtual d esktop through the network using a delivery 
protocol for the virtual desktop. 
• when a daas user terminates a virtual desktop service, the daas client executes a log out operation 
without loss of user data. 
• during the log out operation, the connection ma nager updates the modified user profile in a user 
profile pool to keep the most recent information, and releases the vm resources. 
