1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
10  
6 cloud computing overview 
6.1 general 
cloud computing  is a paradigm for enabling network ac cess to a scalable and elastic pool of shareable 
physical or virtual resources with self -service provisioning and administration on -demand. the cloud 
computing paradigm is composed of key characteristics, cloud computing  roles and activities, cloud 
capabilities types  and cloud service categories , cloud deployment models  and cloud computing  cross 
cutting aspects that are briefly described in this clause 6. 
6.2 key characteristics 
cloud computing is an evolving paradigm. this clause 6.2 identifies and describes key characteristics of cloud 
computing and is not intended to prescribe or constrain any particular method of deployment, service 
delivery, or business operation. 
key characteristics of cloud computing are: 
– broad network access : a feature where the physical and virtual resources are available over a 
network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous client 
platforms. the focus of this key characteristic is that cloud computing offers an increased level of 
convenience in that users can access physical and virtual resources from wherever they need to 
work, as long as it is network accessible, using a wide variety of clients including devices such as 
mobile phones, tablets, laptops, and workstations; 
– measured service: a feature where the metered delivery of cloud services is such that usage can be 
monitored, controlled, reported, and billed. this is an important feature needed to optimize and 
validate the delivered cloud service. the focus of this key characteristic is that the customer may 
only pay for the resources that they use. from the customers' perspective, cloud computing offers 
the users value by enabling a switch from a low efficiency and asset utilization business model to a 
high efficiency one; 
– multi-tenancy: a feature where physical or virtual resources are allocated in such a way that 
multiple tenants and their computations and data are isolated from and inaccessible to one another. 
typically, and within the context  of multi-tenancy, the group of cloud service users  that form a 
tenant will all belong to the same cloud service customer organization. there might be cases where 
the group of cloud service users  involves users from multiple different cloud service custome rs, 
particularly in the case of public cloud and community cloud deployments. however, a given cloud 
service customer  organization might have many different tenancies with a single cloud service 
provider representing different groups within the organization; 
– on-demand self -service: a feature where a cloud service customer  can provision computing 
capabilities, as needed, automatically or with minimal interaction with the cloud service provider. 
the focus of this key characteristic is that cloud computing offers users a relative reduction in costs, 
time, and effort needed to take an action, since it grants the user the ability to do what they need, 
when they need it, without requiring additional human user interactions or overhead; 
– rapid elasticity and sca lability: a feature where physical or virtual resources can be rapidly and 
elastically adjusted, in some cases automatically, to quickly increase or decrease resources. for the 
cloud service customer, the physical or virtual resources available for provisioning often appear to 
be unlimited and can be purchased in any quantity at any time automatically, subject to constraints 
of service agreements. therefore, the focus of this key characteristic is that cloud computing means 
that the customers no longer need  to worry about limited resources and might not need to worry 
about capacity planning; 
– resource pooling: a feature where a cloud service provider's physical or virtual resources can be 
aggregated in order to serve one or more cloud service customers . the focus of this key 
characteristic is that cloud service providers can support multi-tenancy while at the same time using 
abstraction to mask the comp lexity of the process from the customer. from the customer's 
perspective, all they know is that the service works, while they generally have no control or 
