security 7 
 
  971 
are usually delivered in certain service categories, e.g., infrastructure as a service (iaas), platform as a service 
(paas), software as a service (saas), network as a service (naas), and many others. these service categories 
enable cloud computing customers to launch or change their business quickly and easily without establishing 
new information and communication technology (ict) infrastructure and systems and provide opportunities 
to provision resources elastically, as needed. for example, some cloud service providers (csps) might provide 
abstracted hardware and software resources which may be offered as a service (e.g., iaas or naas) . other 
cloud service providers may provide cloud specific platforms (paa s) or applications (saas) to enable 
customers and partners to rapidly develop and deploy new applications which can be configured and used 
remotely. 
there are security threats and challenges in adopting cloud computing, and security requirements vary to a 
great extent for different cloud computing service deployment models and service categories. the 
distributed and multi-tenant nature of cloud computing, the prevalence of remote access to cloud computing 
services and the number of entities involved in each  process make cloud computing inherently more 
vulnerable to both internal and external security threats than other paradigms. many of the security threats 
can be mitigated with the application of traditional security processes and mechanisms. security touc hes 
upon and impacts many parts of a cloud computing service. therefore, the security management of the cloud 
computing services, as well as the associated resources, is a critical aspect of cloud computing. 
before the migration of the ict system to cloud computing, a potential cloud service customer (csc) should 
identify their security threats (see clause 7 below) and security challenges (see clause 8). 
based on these threats and challenges, a set of high -level security capabilities (see clause 9) are identified. 
specific requirements for these capabilities are out of the scope of this recommendation, but they will need 
to be identified for specific implementations of cloud computing services, based on risk assessment against 
the identified threats and challenges. 
based on the risk assessment,  a csc can determine whether to adopt cloud computing , and can make 
informed decisions over service providers and architecture. the above risk assessment should be performed 
by using an information security risk management framework (e.g., the risk management framework defined 
in [b-iso/iec 27005]). see also clause 10 below for a suggested framework methodology. 
this recommendation distinguishes between security threats and security challenges. security  threats are 
those associated with attacks (both active and passive), and also environmental failures or disasters. security 
challenges comprise difficulties arising from the nature and operating environment of cloud services. when 
not properly addressed, security challenges may leave doors open for threats. 
based on these identified security threats and challenges, the security capabilities are described to mitigate 
security threats and address security challenges for cloud computing. 
7 security threats for cloud computing 
threats have the potential to harm assets such as informatio n, processes and systems and therefore 
organizations. threats may be of a natural or human origin, and could be accidental or deliberate. a threat 
may arise from within or from outside the organization. threats can be classified as accidental or intentional 
and may be active or passive. 
the specific threats encountered are highly dependent on the chosen specific cloud service. for example, for 
a public cloud, threats can arise from the split responsibilities between the csc and csp: complexities of 
specifying jurisdiction over data and processes, consistency and adequacy of data protection, and 
maintenance of confidentiality, etc. however, for a private cloud, the threats are simpler to address because 
the csc controls all the tenants hosted by the csp. even  though some of the threats identified in this 
recommendation are also covered by existing industry documents (e.g., recommendation itu -t x.800), all 
the threats are relevant to cloud computing. the applicability of individual threats will depend on the specific 
cloud service. 
this clause describes the various security threats that can arise in a cloud computing environment. 
