 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   65 
the csp:cloud service deployment manager's cloud computing activities include: 
• define environment and processes (clause 8.3.2.5); 
• define and gather metrics (clause 8.3.2.6); 
• define deployment steps (clause 8.3.2.7). 
8.3.1.3 csp:cloud service manager 
the csp:cloud service manager is a sub -role of cloud service provider which has responsibility for ensuring 
that the cloud service provider 's services are available for use by cloud service customers , and that they 
function correctly and comply with targets specified in the service level agreement. the csp:cloud service 
manager is also responsible for ensuring the smooth operation of the cloud service provider 's business 
support system and operational support system, as well as the operation of the other functionalities offered 
to the cloud service customers and cloud service partners for management, administration and other cloud 
computing activities. 
the csp:cloud service manager's cloud computing activities include: 
• provide services (clause 8.3.2.8); 
• deploy and provision services (clause 8.3.2.9); 
• perform service level management (clause 8.3.2.10). 
8.3.1.4 csp:cloud service business manager 
the csp:cloud service business manager is a sub-role of cloud service p rovider which has overall 
responsibility for the business aspects of offering cloud services to cloud service customers. the csp:cloud 
service business manager creates and tracks the business plan, defines the service offering strategy and 
manages the business relationship with cloud service customers. 
the csp:cloud service business manager's cloud computing activities include: 
• manage business plan to provide cloud services (clause 8.3.2.11); 
• manage customer relationships (clause 8.3.2.12); 
• manage financial processing (clause 8.3.2.13). 
8.3.1.5 csp:customer support and care representative 
the csp:customer support and care representative is a sub-role of cloud service provider that is the main 
interface for the cloud service customer with the cloud service provider and is responsible for reacting to 
customer issues and queries in a timely and cost efficient way, with the goal of maintaining customer 
satisfaction with the cloud service provider and the cloud services offered. 
the csp:customer support and care representative's cloud computing activities include: 
• handle customer requests (clause 8.3.2.14). 
8.3.1.6 csp:inter-cloud provider  
the csp:inter-cloud provider is a sub-role of cloud service provider that relies on one or more peer cloud 
service providers to provide part or all of the cloud services offered to cloud service customers  by that 
csp:inter-cloud provider. the csp:inter-cloud provider's main activities are the intermediation, aggregation, 
arbitrage, peering or federation of peer cloud service providers' cloud services  and their business and 
administration capabilities from the cloud service customer viewpoint  so that the cloud service customer 
only uses the service, business and administration interfaces of the inter-cloud service provider. 
the csp:inter-cloud provider's cloud computing activities include: 
• manage peer cloud services (clause 8.3.2.15); 
• perform peering, federation, intermediation, aggregation and arbitrage (clause 8.3.2.16). 
