1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
262  
7.2.6 dynamic migration of virtual machine 
the d ynamic migration of a virtual machine is designed to provide service continuity  and reliability 
dynamically. 
the dynamic migration of virtual machine requirements include: 
• it is required that the network configuration of migrated virtual machines remain unchanged after 
migration. 
• it is recommended that cloud service providers ( csps) support the dynamic migration of a virtual 
machine. 
7.2.7 static migration of virtual machine 
the static migration of a virtual machine means moving the virtual machine between different physical 
machines which results in the operating system rebooting. 
the static migration of a virtual machine requirement includes: 
• it is required that csps support static migration. 
7.2.8 management automation 
the management system may perform operations such as starting or stopping a virtual machine, rebooting 
a server and applying software updates automatically.  
the management automation requirement with regard to virtual machines includes: 
• it is recommended that csps automate provision, activation, deactivation and other operations over 
the lifetime of virtual machines.  
7.3 software resources provisioning requirements 
the software resources include the software for building cloud infrastructure resource pools and the 
software in support of service implementation. 
7.3.1 automated provisioning and deployment 
the automated provisioning and deployme nt of software resources can reduce provisioning time and the 
workload for deployment.  
the automated provisioning and deployment requirements include: 
• it is recommended that software resources (e.g., executable files, drivers, libraries, documents, 
icons, etc .) are packaged into encapsulated files, which can be provisioned and deployed 
automatically. 
• it is recommended that software resources be automatically provisioned and deployed to target 
devices or platforms without operator intervention. 
7.3.2 unified software resource management 
unified software resource management includes capabilities for licence information registration, allocation, 
recovery, expiration notification and metering. 
the unified software resource management requirement includes: 
• it is recommended that csps manage software licences in a unified manner. 
7.4 time-sensitive services requirements 
time-sensitive services (e.g., real-time communications using voice and video media) requirements include: 
• it is required to prioritize resource allocation to time-sensitive processing. 
• it is required to apply clock settings best practices (e.g., based on the network time protocol (ntp) 
[b-ietf rfc 5905]). 
