security 7 
 
  1063 
in order for the cloud service customer to perform capacity management for cloud services, the cloud service 
customer should have access to relevant statistics on resource usage, such as: 
– statistics for particular time periods; 
– maximum levels of resource usage. 
12.1.4 separation of development, testing and operational environments 
control 12.1.4 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
12.2 protection from malware 
the objective specified in clause 12.2 of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
12.2.1 controls against malware 
control 12.2.1 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
12.3 backup 
the objective specified in clause 12.3 of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
12.3.1 information backup 
control 12.3.1 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
where the cloud service provider provides backup 
capability as part of the cloud service, the cloud service 
customer should request the specifications of the 
backup capability from the cloud service provider. the 
cloud service customer should also verify that they meet 
their backup requirements. 
the cloud service customer is responsible for 
implementing backup capabilities when the cloud 
service provider does not provide them. 
the cloud service provider should provide the 
specifications of its backup capabilities to the cloud 
service customer. the specifications should include the 
following information, as appropriate: 
– scope and schedule of backups; 
– backup methods and data formats, including 
encryption, if relevant; 
– retention periods for backup data; 
– procedures for verifying integrity of backup data; 
– procedures and timescales involved in restoring data 
from backup; 
– procedures to test the backup capabilities; 
– storage location of backups. 
the cloud service provider should provide secure and 
segregated access to backups, such as virtual snapshots, 
if such service is offered to cloud service customers. 
other information for cloud services 
the allocation of responsibilities for making backups in the cloud computing environment is often unclear. in 
the case of  iaas, responsibility for making backups generally resides with the cloud service customer. 
however, a cloud service customer might not be aware of its responsibility to make backups of all cloud 
service customer data produced in the cloud computing system, such as executable files produced by the use 
of development capabilities of a paas service. 
note – varying levels of backup and restore might be offered as a service at additional cost and, in this case, cloud 
service customers can choose what and when to backup. 
