7 security  
 
1064 
12.4 logging and monitoring 
the objective specified in clause 12.4 of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
12.4.1 event logging 
control 12.4.1 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider 
the cloud service customer should define its requirements 
for event logging and verify that the cloud service meets 
those requirements.  
the cloud service provider should provide logging 
capabilities to the cloud service customer. 
other information for cloud services 
the responsibilities of the cloud service customer and the cloud service provider for event logging vary 
depending on the type of cloud service being used. for example, with iaas, a cloud service provider's logging 
responsibility can be limited to that of cloud computing infrastructure components, and the  cloud service 
customer can be responsible for logging the events of its own virtual machines and applications. 
12.4.2 protection of log information 
control 12.4.2 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
12.4.3 administrator and operator logs 
control 12.4.3 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
if a privileged operation is delegated to the cloud 
service customer, the operation and performance of 
those operations should be logged. the cloud service 
customer should determine whether logging capabilities 
provided by the cloud service provider are appropriate 
or whether the cloud service customer should 
implement additional logging capabilities. 
(no additional implementation guidance) 
other information for cloud services 
the allocation of  responsibilities between the cloud service customer and the cloud service provider (see 
clause 6.1.1) should cover privileged operations related to the cloud service. monitoring and logging the use 
of privileged operations are necessary to support preventive and corrective actions against incorrect use of 
these operations. 
12.4.4 clock synchronization 
control 12.4.4 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
