2 cloud computing management  
 
502  
4) stage 4: retirement 
triggered by the end of the contractual agreement between csc and csp, this stops the monitoring and usage 
activities and releases the resources and components associated with the cloud service resulting in its 
disappearing. note that the retirement process does not necessarily mean that the associate service instance 
is removed from t he service inventory. the csp may want to keep the service operation metadata in 
"unconfigured" state in its management infrastructure. 
a conceptual cloud service will therefore evolve throughout stages such as those described above. this may 
affect the service lifecycle metadata as structure (e.g. , adding a new element), or as value (e.g. , modifying 
the current value of an element or attribute in the metadata associated with the service). hence cloud service 
lifecycle metadata representation evolves with c loud service lifecycle stages while the stages essentially 
represent the different steps a service would be subject to, from design stage to retirement stage. 
6.4 relationship with cloud computing reference architecture 
the cloud computing reference architecture, see [itu-t y.3502] provides an architectural framework that is 
effective for describing the cloud computing roles, sub -roles, cloud computing activities, cross -cutting 
aspects, as well as the functional architecture and functional components of cloud computing. although the 
cloud computing reference architecture does  not mention the cloud service lifecycle management in the 
activities and functional architecture, some o f its functional  components can be used in different cloud 
service lifecycle management stages. for example, the subscription management functional component in 
cloud computing reference architecture handles subscriptions from csc to particular cloud services, aiming 
to record new or changed subscription information from csc and ensure  the delivery of the subscribed 
service(s) to csc. in addition the operation stage in the cloud service lifecycle covers all the activities related 
to the actual creation and monitoring of each service, which includes service subscription.  therefore the 
subscription management functional component can be used in operation stage.  
figure 6-2 illustrates the relationship between e2e cloud service lifecycle stages and functional components 
of cloud computing reference architecture. 
 
figure 6-2 – relationship e2e cloud service lifecycle stages and functional 
components of cloud computing reference architecture 

