intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  885 
7.10 interoperability testing of vm backup between the csc and csp 
the test object of vm backup is to verify that the csc obtains the configuration and data of a particular vm 
by making a backup and restoring the vm. the test case of vm backup can be found in appendix ii.1.10. 
7.11 interoperability testing of vm life cycle management between the csc and csp 
the test object of vm life cycle management is to verify that the csc manages the vm with various operations 
including start, shutdown, restart, suspend and resume vm. the test case of vm life cycle management can 
be found in appendix ii.1.11. 
7.12 interoperability testing of physical machine life cycle management between the csc and csp 
the test object of physical machine life cycle management is to verify that the csc  manages the physical 
machine with various operations including start, shutdown, hibernate and wake-up. the test case of physical 
machine life cycle management can be found in appendix ii.1.12. 
7.13 interoperability testing of vm configuration inquiring between the csc and csp 
the test object of vm configuration inquiring is to verify that the csc inquires vm configuration with the cpu 
number, memory allocated, nic number and ip address allocated. the test case of vm configuration inquiring 
can be found in appendix ii.1.13.  
7.14 interoperability testing of physical machine configuration inquiring between the csc and csp 
the test object of physical machine configuration inquiring is to verify that the csc inquires physical machine 
configuration with the number of cpu cores, memory size, disk size and nic number. the test case of physical 
machine configuration inquiring can be found in appendix ii.1.14. 
8 storage service interoperability testing between the csc and csp 
storage service interoperability testing between the csc and csp valuates the interaction between the csc 
and csp for storage service and related management functions ; these include storage migration, storage 
snapshot, storage backup, storage  resource reservation, i/o performance, storage life cycle management  
and storage utilization status inquiring. for a  description of related function al requirements refer to 
[itu-t y.3513]. 
8.1 interoperability testing of storage migration between the csc and csp 
the test object of storage migration is to verify that the csc  migrates data of the vm to different storage 
media without any loss. the test case of storage migration can be found in appendix ii.2.1. 
8.2 interoperability testing of storage snapshot between the csc and csp 
the test object of storage snapshot is to verify that the csc  preserves and recovers the state and data of 
storage. the test case of storage snapshot can be found in appendix ii.2.2. 
8.3 interoperability testing of storage backup between the csc and csp 
the test object of storage backup is to verify that the csc backs up and restores data when faulty or data 
loss occurs. the test case of storage backup can be found in appendix ii.2.3. 
8.4 interoperability testing of storage resource reservation between the csc and csp 
the test object of storage resource reservation is to verify that the csc reserves available storage resources 
(e.g., storage space and lun)  for the vm. the test case of storage resource reservation can be found in 
appendix ii.2.4. 
