security 7 
 
  981 
10 framework methodology 
to develop a security framework for cloud computing means understanding what threats and challenges 
exist, as was discussed in clauses 7 and 8, for the chosen specific cloud service along with the business, 
technology and regulatory requirements which are to be taken together to identify security controls, policies 
and procedures that will be needed for a given cloud service. the capabilities described in clause 9 to address 
and mitigate these threats and challenges are the n used to develop the security controls, policies and 
procedures for the chosen specific cloud computing service. this recommendation focuses on what the 
needs are for security in a cloud computing environment, the threats and challenges of a traditional 
computing environment exist within the cloud environment and as such following the standards and best 
practices defined by the industry should be followed in addition to this recommendation. 
the methodology described here should be followed to create the framework that will identify what security 
controls, policies and procedures will be needed for a specific given cloud computing service. it is not possible 
to provide a single normative framework for all cloud computing services, since they vary greatly in business 
model, services offered and implementation choices: 
• step 1: use clauses 7 and 8 to identify security threats and security implications of the challenges in 
the cloud computing service under study. 
• step 2: use clause 9 to identify the needed high-level security capabilities based on identified threats 
and challenges which could mitigate security threats and address security challenges. 
• step 3: derive security controls, policies and procedures which could provide the security abilities 
that are needed based on identified security capabilities. 
note – a set of appropriate requirements with respect to the security capabilities will need to be determined by the 
csc and csp using appropriate standards. this determination will be based on the risk as sessment. 
to identify which security threats and challenges are relevant for the cloud service under study, each threat 
or challenge should be reviewed. one approach could be as simple as a table showing a 'y' next to the threat 
or challenge. 
for an example using this approach, when the csp provides file storage as a service to individual users, the 
csp would like to understand what security threats and challenges users are mainly concerned about, and to 
analyse what security threats and challenges that csp  mainly needs to address. table 1 demonstrates this 
approach. 
table 1 – example of security framework analysis step 1 for file storage as a service 
area of analysis specific threat or challenge is this applicable to this 
service? 
clause 7.1 security threats for cloud 
service customers (csc) 
clause 7.1.1 data loss and leakage y 
clause 7.1.2 insecure service access y 
clause 7.1.3 insider threats  
clause 7.2 security threats for cloud 
service providers (csps) 
clause 7.2.1 unauthorized administration 
access 
y 
clause 7.2.2 insider threats y 
clause 8.1 security challenges for cloud 
service customers (cscs) 
clause 8.1.1 ambiguity in responsibility y 
clause 8.1.2 loss of trust y 
clause 8.1.3 loss of governance y 
clause 8.1.4 loss of confidentiality y 
clause 8.1.5 service unavailability y 
clause 8.1.6 cloud service provider lock-in y 
clause 8.1.7 misappropriation of 
intellectual property 
 
