security 7 
 
  1077 
cld.9.5.2 virtual machine hardening 
control 
virtual machines in a cloud computing environment should be hardened to meet business needs. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
when configuring virtual machines, cloud service customers and cloud service providers should ensure that 
appropriate aspects are hardened (e.g., only those ports, protocols and services that are needed), and that the 
appropriate technical measures are in place (e.g., anti-malware, logging) for each virtual machine used. 
cld.12.1 operational procedures and responsibilities 
the objective specified in clause 12.1 of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
cld.12.1.5 administrator's operational security 
control 
procedures for administrative operations of a cloud computing environment should be defined, documented 
and monitored. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
the cloud service customer should document 
procedures for critical operations where a failure can 
cause unrecoverable damage to assets in the cloud 
computing environment. 
examples of the critical operations are: 
– installation, changes, and deletion of virtualized 
devices such as servers, networks and storage; 
– termination procedures for cloud service usage; 
– backup and restoration. 
the document should specify that a supervisor should 
monitor these operations. 
the cloud service provider should provide 
documentation about the critical operations and 
procedures to cloud service customers who require it. 
other information for cloud services 
cloud computing has the benefit of rapid provisioning and administration, and on-demand self-service. these 
operations are often carried out by administrators from the cloud service customer and the cloud service 
provider. because human intervention in these critical operations can cause serious information security 
incidents, mechanisms to safeguard the operations should be considered and , if needed, be defined and 
implemented. examples of serious incidents include erasing or shutting down a large number of  virtual 
servers or destroying virtual assets. 
cld.12.4 logging and monitoring 
the objective specified in clause 12.4 of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
cld.12.4.5 monitoring of cloud services 
control 
the cloud service customer should have the capability to monitor specified aspects of the operation of the 
cloud services that the cloud service customer uses. 
