 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   383 
7.1.9 dmtf (distributed management task force) 
the dmtf is an industry standards organization working to simplify the manageability of network-accessible 
technologies through open and collaborative efforts by leading technology companies. dmtf creates and 
drives the international adoption of interoperable management standards, supporting implementations that 
enable the management of diverse traditional and emerging technologies including cloud, virtualization, 
network and infrastructure [b-dmtf]. 
the dmtf working groups that deliver standards used in cloud computing are [b-dmgf-wg]: 
– cloud management working group (cmwg) 
– cloud auditing data federation working group (cadf) 
the dmtf working groups that deliver standards which may be used in cloud data centres are: 
– cim profile for platforms and service working group (cppswg) 
– open virtualization format working group (ovf) 
– scalable platform management forum (spmf) 
– virtualization management working group 
7.1.10 tm forum 
tm forum is the global member association for digital business. it provides a platform for hundreds of global 
members across a wide range of industries: communications, technology, cities and municipal government, 
finance, healthcare and so on, to collaborate and partner to co -create, prototype, deliver, and monetize 
innovative digital services for their billions of customers [b-tmf]. 
7.1.11 atis 
atis is where leading ict companies come for solutions when seeking industry alignment to advance their 
most critical priorities [b-atis]. 
7.1.12 broadband forum 
the broadband forum, a non -profit industry organization, is focused on engineering smarter and faster 
broadband networks. their work defines best practices for global networks, enables service and content 
delivery, establishes technology migration strategi es, engineers critical device  and service management 
tools, and is key to redefining broadband. free technical reports and white papers can be found at 
broadband-forum.org [b-broadband]. 
the cloud-based central office (cloudco) project is the core of a number of bbf activities applying the design 
principles of software -defined networking (sdn) and network functions virtualization (nfv) techniques 
enabling the decentralization of what has traditionally been monolithic networking elements. cloudco 
enables dramatically faster and more efficient provisioning of new, cloud-based services. 
for management in an sdn&nfv architecture, netconf/yang is expected to play a key role. the cloudco 
project is leveraging the work done by the broadband forum common yang work area, which defines the 
yang models required for the management of ultrafast broadband networks based on copper and fibre 
access. 
the open broadband (ob) programme is a collaborative space for integration, interop, testing of open 
source, vendor and s tandards-based implementations. the migration to cloud -based, programmed, 
virtualized systems and coexistence with existing infrastructure drove ob. ob provides alignment with open 
source techniques and focus on interoperability  to mitigate deployment risk s. it provides value to service 
providers, integrators and suppliers.  
open broadband laboratories (obl) is a collaborative resource for the integration, staging and testing of 
open source, commercial software, standards -based and vendor implementations wh ere suppliers, 
integrators and operators can work together on new and coexisting solutions for cloudco. obls are a 
common hardware and software platform with regional laboratories in asia, europe and usa that are open 
to members and non-members. 
