 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   23 
3 definitions 
3.1 terms defined elsewhere  
this recommendation uses the following terms defined elsewhere: 
3.1.1 big data [itu-t y.3600]: a paradigm for enabling the collection, storage, management, analysis and 
visualization, potentially under real -time constraints, of extensive datasets with heterogeneous 
characteristics. 
note – examples of datasets characteristics include high-volume, high-velocity, high-variety, etc. 
3.1.2 big data as a service (bdaas)  [itu-t y.3600]: a cloud service category in which the capabilities 
provided to the cloud service customer are the ability t o collect, store, analyse, visualize and manage data 
using big data. 
3.1.3 cloud computing [itu-t y.3500]: paradigm for enabling network access to a scalable and elastic pool 
of shareable physical or virtual resources with self-service provisioning and administration on-demand. 
note – examples of resources include servers, operating systems, networks, software, applications, and storage 
equipment.  
3.1.4 cloud service [itu-t y.3500]: one or more capabilities offered via cloud computing invoked using a 
defined interface. 
3.1.5 cloud service category [itu-t y.3500]: group of cloud services that possess some common set of 
qualities. 
3.1.6 cloud service customer [itu-t y.3500]: party which is in a business relationship for the purpose of 
using cloud services. 
note – a business relationship does not necessarily imply financial agreements.  
3.1.7 cloud service partner [itu-t y.3500]: party which is engaged in support of, or auxiliary to, activities 
of either the cloud service provider or the cloud service customer, or both. 
3.1.8 cloud service provider [itu-t y.3500]: party which makes cloud services available. 
3.1.9 cloud service user [itu-t y.3500]: natural person, or entity acting on their behalf, associated with a 
cloud service customer that uses cloud services. 
note – examples of such entities include devices and applications. 
3.1.10 communications as a service (caas) [itu-t y.3500]: cloud service category in which the capability 
provided to the cloud service customer is real time interaction and collaboration. 
note – caas can provide both application capabilities type and platform capabilities type. 
3.1.11 desktop as a service (daas)  [itu-t y.3503] : a cloud service category in which the capabilities 
provided to the cloud service customer are the ability to build, configure, manage, store, execute and deliver 
users' desktop functions remotely. 
3.1.12 hypervisor [itu-t y.3510]: a type of system software  that allows multiple operating systems to 
share a single hardware host. 
note – each operating system appears to have the host's processor, memory and other resources, all to itself.   
3.1.13 infrastructure as a ser vice (iaas)  [itu-t y.3500]: cloud service category in which the cloud 
capabilities type provided to the cloud service customer is an infrastructure capabilities type. 
note – the cloud service customer does not manage or control the underlying physical and virtual resources, but does 
have control over operating systems, storage, and deployed applications that use the physical and virtual resources. 
the cloud service customer may also have limited ability to control certain networking components (e.g., host firewalls). 
3.1.14 infrastructure capabilities type  [itu-t y.3500]: cloud capabilities type in which the cloud service 
customer can provision and use processing, storage or networking resources. 
