7 security  
 
978 
application programing interfaces (apis) will normally be closed, and irrelevant service components will 
normally be disabled. 
vms covered by this capability include those created by csc in iaas, as well as any vms created by saas and 
paas. virtual machines will usually be well isolated when sharing memory, a central processing unit (cpu) 
and storage capacities. virtual machines will usually have intrinsic security capabilities and policy awareness 
(e.g., in the guest operating system). 
9.6 network security 
in a cloud computing environment, network security enables both physical and virtual network isolation, and 
secures communications among all  participants. it enables network security domain partition, network 
border access controls (e.g., firewall), intrusion detection and prevention, network traffic segregation based 
on security policies, and it protect s the network from attacks in both the physical and virtual networ k 
environments. 
9.7 data isolation, protection and confidentiality protection 
this capability addresses general data protection issues which often have legal implications. 
• data isolation 
in a cloud computing context, a tenant is prevented from accessing data belonging to another tenant, even 
when the data is encrypted , except when explicitly authorized . data isolation may be realized logically or 
physically, depending on the required isolation granularity and the specific deployment of cloud computing 
software and hardware. 
note 1 – in cloud computing, isolation occurs at the tenant level. a given csc may have multiple tenants in the cloud, 
for example, to separate different subsidiaries, divisions or business units.  
• data protection 
data protect ion ensures that csc data and derived data held in a cloud computing environment is 
appropriately protected so that it can only be accessed or changed as authorized by the csc (or according to 
applicable law). this protection may include some combination of access control lists, integrity verification, 
error correction/data recovery, encryption and other appropriate mechanisms. 
when a csp provides storage encryption for cscs, this function can be client -side encryption (e.g., within a 
csp application) or server-side encryption. 
• confidentiality protection 
private information can include pii and confidential corporate data. the collection, use, transfer, handling, 
storage and destruction  of private information can be  subject to confidentiality regulations or laws. this 
restriction applies to both csps and their cscs, e.g., a csc must be able to permanently delete a data table 
containing private information, even though the csp is not aware of the table contents. csps may also need 
to support the handling, e.g., searching of a cscs' data in their transformed or encrypted form. 
confidentiality protection extends to private information that may be observed or derived from csc 
activities, such as business trends, relationships or comm unications with other parties, activity levels and 
patterns, etc. 
confidentiality protection is also responsible for ensuring that all private information (including observed or 
derived data) is used only for those purposes which have been agreed between a csc and csp. 
a risk assessment  of private information  (noted as "confidentiality risk assessment")  can assist  a csp in 
identifying the specific risks of confidentiality breaches involved in an envisaged operation . the csp should 
identify and implement capabilities to address the confidentiality risks identified by the risk assessment and 
treatment of private information. 
note 2 – in some jurisdictions, individual natural persons (i.e., human users) are treated separately from their 
employers for confidenti ality purposes. in such circumstances, confidentiality of the cloud service user (csu) will be 
appropriately protected in addition to that of the cloud service customer (csc) or cloud service tenant.  
