7 security  
 
1052 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider 
the cloud service customer should agree with the cloud 
service provider on an appropriate allocation of 
information security roles and responsibilities, and 
confirm that it can fulfil its allocated roles and 
responsibilities. the information security roles and 
responsibilities of both parties should be stated in an 
agreement. 
the cloud service customer should identify and manage 
its relationship with the customer support and care 
function of the cloud service provider. 
the cloud service provider should agree and document 
an appropriate allocation of information security roles 
and responsibilities with its cloud service customers, its 
cloud service providers, and its suppliers. 
other information for cloud services 
even when responsibilities are determined within and between the parties, the cloud service customer is 
accountable for the decision to use the service. that decision should be made accord ing to the roles and 
responsibilities determined within the cloud service customer's organization. the cloud service provider is 
accountable for the information security stated as part of the cloud service agreement. the information 
security implementation and provisioning should be made according to the roles and responsibilities 
determined within the cloud service provider's organization. 
ambiguity in roles and in the definition and allocation of responsibilities related to issues such as da ta 
ownership, access control, and infrastructure maintenance, can give rise to business or legal disputes, 
especially when dealing with third parties. 
data and files on the cloud service provider's systems that are created or modified during the use of the cloud 
service can be critical to the secure operation, recovery and continuity of the service. the ownership of all 
assets, and the parties who have responsibilities for operations associated with these assets, such as backup 
and recovery operations, should be defined and documented. otherwise, there is a risk that the cloud service 
provider assumes that the cloud service customer performs these vital tasks (or vice versa), and a loss of data 
can occur. 
6.1.2 segregation of duties 
control 6.1.2 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
6.1.3 contact with authorities 
control 6.1.3 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider 
the cloud service customer should identify the 
authorities relevant to the combined operation of the 
cloud service customer and the cloud service provider. 
the cloud service provider should inform the cloud 
service customer of the geographical locations of the 
cloud service provider's organization and the countries 
where the cloud service provider can store the cloud 
service customer data. 
other information for cloud services 
information about geographical locations where the cloud service customer data can be stored, processed 
or transmitted can help the cloud service customer in determining the supervisory authorities and 
jurisdictions. 
