security 7 
 
  1011 
2) data protection 
 data protection ensures that csc data and cloud service derived data held in a cloud computing 
environment is appropriately secured so that it can only be accessed or changed as authorized by 
the csc (or according to applicable law). this protection may include some combination of access 
control lists, integrity verification, error correction/data recovery, encryption and other appropriate 
mechanisms. when a csp provides storage encryption for c scs, this function can be client -side 
encryption (e.g., within a csp application) or server-side encryption. 
3) confidentiality protection 
 private information can include personally identifiable information (pii) and confidential corporate 
data. the collection, use, transfer, handling, storage and destruction of private information can be 
subject to confidentiality regulations or laws. this restriction applies to both csps and their cscs, 
e.g., a csc must be able to permanently delete a data table containi ng private information, even 
though the csp is not aware of the table contents. csps may also need to support information 
handling, e.g., searching of csc data in its transformed or encrypted form. 
 confidentiality protection extends to private information that may be observed or derived from csc 
activities, such as business trends, relationships or communications with other parties, and activity 
levels and patterns. 
 confidentiality protection is also responsible for ensuring that all private information ( including 
observed or derived data) is used only for those purposes that have been agreed between a csc and 
a csp. 
 a risk assessment of private information (called a "confidentiality risk assessment") can assist a csp 
in identifying the specific risks of confidentiality breaches involved in an envisaged operation. the 
csp should identify and implement capabilities to address the confidentiality risks identified by the 
risk assessment and treatment of private information. 
 note – in some jurisdictions, individual natural persons (i.e., human users) are treated separately from their 
employers for confidentiality purposes. in such circumstances, confidentiality of the csu will be appropriately 
protected in addition to that of the csc or tenant. 
6.4 data security lifecycle 
based on the actual situation of cloud service, the csc data security lifecycle includes: 
1) creation: this is probably better named creation/update because it applies to creating or changing 
a data/content element, not just a document or database. creation is the generation of new digital 
content, or the alteration/updating of existing content. 
2) transmission: this is the communication process of transferring data from one place to another. 
3) storage: storage is the act of committing the  digital data to some sort of repository, and typically 
occurs nearly simultaneously with creation. 
4) use: data is viewed, processed, shared or otherwise used in some sort of activity. 
5) migration: data migration is the process of transferring data betwe en storage types, formats, or 
computer systems. it is a key consideration for any system implementation, upgrade, or 
consolidation. data migration occurs for a variety of reasons, including: server or storage equipment 
replacements or upgrades; website consolidation; server maintenance; and data centre relocation. 
6) destruction: data is permanently destroyed using physical or digital means (e.g., crypto shredding). 
7) backup and restoration: users can create data backups and restore data from backups. 
  
