2 cloud computing management  
 
522  
appendix i 
 
metadata applicability in naas service lifecycle management 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
this appendix aims to provide applicability examples of naas service lifecycle management metadata. 
i.1 virtual private cloud 
the manipulation of the virtual private cloud (vpc) network may also affect the configurati on of physical 
networks. for example, when two new virtual machines (vms) associated to a given vpc are deployed in two 
different data centres (dcs), the vpc control mechanism needs to generate a  virtual private network (vpn) 
between these two data centres for the internal vpc communications. therefore, the control mechanism for 
a vpc should be able to adjust the underlying network at run time when a csc requests changes to the vpc 
network or service deployment. 
when a csc moves from one location to another, which is near to another csp's data centre, and in the case 
where the network load between these two data centres is low, the csc 's vm(s) should be migrated to the 
new data centre to allow for a better user experience. 
as illustrated by figure i.1, a vpc  corresponds to a combination of cloud computing resources with a vpn 
infrastructure to give naas service cscs the abstraction of a private set of cloud resources that are 
transparently and securely connected to their own inf rastructure. vpcs are created b y taking dynamically 
configurable pools of cloud resources and connecting them to enterprise sites with vpns. 
 
figure i.1 – illustration of virtual private cloud 
the naas resource data model needs to be used in this scenario for modelling the physical nodes and links. 
the naas service data model, specifically for l3vpn, is needed to model the l3vpn attributes, including, but 
not limited to: tenant id, vpn site ids, vpn type, access bandwidth. 
here, the naas policy data model can be described as follows, using event, condition and action (eca) policy. 
– event: a vpc user's location is changed (near to another dc) 
– condition: network_load(dc_old, dc_new) < threshold 
– action: 
1) migrate the vm to the new data center (dc_new); 
2) update the vpns connecting the csc's services. 
i.2 instant vpn 
traditionally, when a naas csp needs to deploy vpn services for an enterprise naas csc, the naas csp will 
send service staff to the naas csc site to make the wired connection between the customer edge (ce) and 

