7 security  
 
1024 
the specific requirements of the security clause of sla  could be negotiated by csps and cscs based on the 
customized requirements of cscs and their control ability over the resources. for csps, disclaimer items 
should be stated clearly in a business contract or a product description to avoid unnecessary disput e or 
security risk, so that csps will not be held responsible in case of force majeure. 
7.2.2 elements of the security clause of sla 
the security clauses of sla include but are not limited to the following elements. 
7.2.2.1 business continuity 
csps should deploy adequate protection in case of a man -made or natural disaster to ensure service 
availability and business continuity. the detailed items or requirements are shown below: 
1) service availability 
 the percentage of time at which the service is usable in a given period of time. for a given cloud 
service, the terms of its service ability should not be lower than the traditional information and 
communication technology (ict) service generally. 
2) average recovery time 
 the time to recover the lost data or resume the service from a fault occurrence or other disasters. 
7.2.2.2 data security protection 
csps should have a comprehensive protection program to protect the csc's data and other privacy 
information, and csps and cscs should reach an agreement on the detailed mechanisms and requirements. 
1) storage physical security 
 csps should implement measures to ensure storage physical security, such as entrance guard, fire 
protection system, backup power supply system, etc. 
2) data storage medium protection 
 csps should deploy protection measures such as device reinforcing, patch upgrading and so on, to 
enhance the security of data storage medium. 
3) data encryption 
 it should be stated which data is being encrypted in the process of storage or transmission, and the 
details of the encryption algorithms. 
4) data access control 
 the access control measure of data should be specified to prevent illegal access. 
5) data isolation 
 it should be noted that the data of different cscs are isolated logically or physically. 
6) data deletion 
 it includes the assurance of data deletion. it should be assured that the data be deleted permanently 
before the resources could be allocated to other cscs. 
7) data backup 
 it includes the terms of recovery point objective (rpo) and recovery time objective (rto), retention 
policy, combination of on-site backup and off-site backup, etc. 
8) data operation audit 
 csps should audit the operation of cscs' data and be able to detect abnormal operations; the 
auditor should be certified to be qualified for auditing. 
9) data compliance 
 data collection, transfer, handling, storage and destruction should comply with the applicable 
regulations and laws in the csc's governing jurisdiction. similarly, the requirement of data retention 
should also comply with the allowed retention time of different jurisdictional restrictions. 
