intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  805 
10 requirements for resiliency of trusted inter-cloud 
this clause provides requirements for resiliency of trusted inter-cloud derived from the use cases described 
in appendix i. 
10.1 service monitoring 
it is recommended that the csp monitors quality of trusted inter-cloud service in real time. 
10.2 service continuity 
it is recommended that the csp supports t he resiliency of trusted inter -cloud services in order to respect 
service continuity in accordance with the sla established between csc and csp or between csps. 
10.3 resiliency policies  
it is recommended that the csp integrates and validates cloud service s from peer csps with respect to 
resiliency policies. 
10.4 resiliency validation 
it is recommended that the csp validates resiliency of cloud service from peer csps. 
11 requirements for security and confidentiality of trusted inter-cloud  
this clause provides requirements for security and confidentiality of trusted inter-cloud derived from the use 
cases described in appendix i. 
11.1 security and confidentiality policies 
it is recommended that the csp supports unified (commonly adopted) security and con fidentiality policies 
and metadata. 
11.2 level of robustness 
it is recommended that the csp supports appropriate levels of robustness.  
11.3 security policy negotiation 
it is recommended that the csp supports security policy negotiation. 
11.4 security and confidentiality policy  
it is required that the csp respects the security and confidentiality policies established between csc and csp 
or between csps. 
11.5 data security  
it is recommended that the csp supports on-demand data security services. 
11.6 security policy monitoring 
it is recommended that the csp supports deployment and monitoring of security policies related to inter -
cloud. 
12 security considerations 
security aspects for consideration within the cloud computing environment, including inter-cloud computing, 
are described in [itu -t x.1601] , which analyses security threats and challenges, and describes security 
capabilities that could mitigate these threats and meet the security challenges. 
  
