 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   11 
knowledge over how the resources are being provided or where the resources are located. this 
offloads some of the customer's original workload, such as maintenance requirements, to the 
provider. even with this level of abstraction, it should be pointed out that users might still be able 
to specify location at a higher level of abstraction (e.g., country, state, or data centre).  
6.3 cloud computing roles and activities 
within the context of cloud computing, it is often necessary to differentiate requirements and issues for 
certain parties. these parties are entities that play roles (and sub-roles). roles, in turn, are sets of activities 
and activities themselves are implemented by components. all cloud computing related activities can be 
categorized into three main groups: activities that use services, activities that provide services and activities 
that support services. it is important to note that a party may play more than one role at any given point in 
time and may only engage in a specific subset of activities of that role. 
the major roles of cloud computing are: 
– cloud service customer: a party which is in a business relationship for the purpose of using cloud 
services. the business relationship is with a cloud service provider or a cloud service partner. key 
activities for a cloud service customer  include, but are not limited to, using cloud services , 
performing business administration, and administering use of cloud services; 
– cloud service partner: a party which is engaged in support of, or auxiliary to, activities of either the 
cloud service provider or the cloud service customer, or both. a cloud service partner's activities 
vary depending on the type of partner and their relationship with the cloud service provider and 
the cloud service customer . examples of cloud service partners  include cloud auditor and cloud 
service broker; 
– cloud service provider: a party which makes cloud services available. the cloud service provider 
focuses on activities necessary to provide a cloud service  and activities necessary to ensure its 
delivery to the cloud service customer  as well as cloud service maintenance. the cloud service 
provider includes an extensive set of activities (e.g., provid e service, deploy and monitor service, 
manage business plan, provide audit data, etc.) as well as numerous sub -roles (e.g., business 
manager, service manager, network provider, security and risk manager, etc.). 
6.4 cloud capabilities types and cloud service categories  
a cloud capabilities type is a classification of the functionality provided by a cloud service to the cloud service 
customer, based on the resources used. there are three different cloud capabilities types : application 
capabilities type , infrastructure capabilities type , and platform capabilities type , which are different 
because they follow the principle of separation of concerns, i.e. they have minimal functionality overlap 
between each other. 
the cloud capabilities types are: 
– application capabilities type: a cloud capabilities type in which the cloud service customer can use 
the cloud service provider's applications; 
– infrastructure capabilities type: a cloud capabilities type in which the cloud service customer can 
provision and use processing, storage or networking resources; 
– platform capabilities type : a cloud capabilities type  in which the cloud service customer  can 
deploy, manage and run customer -created or customer -acquired applications using one or more 
programming languages and one or more execution environments supported by the cloud service 
provider.  
there are only three cloud capabilities types  defined in this recommendation | international standard. 
these cloud capabilities types should not be confused with other categorizations of cloud services.  
a cloud service category  is a group of cloud services that possess some common set of qualities . a cloud 
service category can include capabilities from one or more cloud capabilities types.  
