1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
230  
1 scope 
this recommendation provides an overview and high -level requirements of the distributed cloud . it 
addresses the following subjects: 
– definition of distributed cloud; 
– concept of distributed cloud; 
– characteristics of distributed cloud; 
– configuration models of distributed cloud; 
– deployment considerations of distributed cloud; and 
– high-level requirements of distributed cloud. 
use cases of d istributed cloud are provided in appendices i and ii. also, a comparison between distributed 
cloud and other technologies is described in appendix iii. 
2 references 
the following itu-t recommendations and other references contain provisions which, through reference in 
this text, constitute provisions of this recommendation. at the time of publication, the editions indicated 
were valid. all recommendations and other references are subject to revision; users of this recommendation 
are therefore encouraged to inves tigate the possibility of applying the most recent edition of the 
recommendations and other references listed below. a list of the currently valid itu-t recommendations is 
regularly published. the reference to a document within this recommendation does not  give it, as a stand-
alone document, the status of a recommendation. 
[itu-t y.3500] recommendation itu-t y.3500 (2014), information technology – cloud computing – 
overview and vocabulary. 
[itu-t y.3502] recommendation itu-t y.3502 (2014), information technology – cloud computing – 
reference architecture. 
[itu-t y.3511] recommendation itu-t y.3511 (2014), framework of inter-cloud computing. 
3 definitions 
3.1 terms defined elsewhere 
this recommendation uses the following terms defined elsewhere: 
3.1.1 cloud capabilities type [iut-t y.3500]: classification of the functionality provided by a cloud service 
to the cloud service customer, based on resources used. 
note – the cloud capabilities types are application capabilities type, infrastructure capabilities type and platform 
capabilities type. 
3.1.2 cloud computing [iut-t y.3500]: paradigm for enabling network access to a scalable and elastic pool 
of shareable physical or virtual resources with self-service provisioning and administration on-demand. 
note – examples of resources include servers, operating systems, networks, software, applications and storage 
equipment. 
3.1.3 cloud service [itu-t y.3500]: one or more capabilities offered via cloud computing  invoked using a 
defined interface. 
3.1.4 cloud service customer [itu-t y.3500]: party which is in a business relationship for the purpose of 
using cloud services. 
note – a business relationship does not necessarily imply financial agreements.  
3.1.5 cloud service provider [itu-t y.3500]: party which makes cloud services available. 
