intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  867 
this recommendation covers the typical functional components, not all components, and interworking 
among them in clauses 7, 8 and 9. 
5.1 common aspects to be considered in cloud computing interoperability testing 
the aspects which should be considered for the testing of cloud computing interope rability need to be 
prescribed according to the requirements described in [itu -t y.3501]. the following items, picked up from 
the general requirements for cloud computing [itu-t y.3501], indicate common aspects to be considered in 
cloud computing interoperability testing: 
• service life-cycle management 
it is required that cloud computing supports automated  service provisioning, modification and termination 
during the service life-cycle. 
• regulatory aspects 
it is required that all applicable laws and regul ations be respected,  including those related to privacy 
protection. 
• security 
it is required that the cloud computing environment be appropriately secured to  protect the interests of all 
persons and organizations involved in the cloud computing ecosystem. 
• accounting and charging 
it is recommended that cloud computing supports various accounting and charging models and policies. 
• efficient service deployment 
it is recommended that cloud computing enables efficient use of resources for service deployment. 
• interoperability 
it is recommended that cloud computing systems comply with  appropriate specifications and/or standards 
for allowing these systems to work together. 
• portability 
it is recommended that cloud computing supports the portability of software assets and data of cloud service 
customers (cscs) with minimum disruption. 
• service access 
cloud computing is recommended to provide cscs with access to cloud  services from a variety of user 
devices. it is recommended that cscs be provided with a consistent experience when accessing cloud services 
from different devices. 
• service availability, service reliability and quality assurance 
it is recommended that the  cloud service provider (csp) provides end -to-end quality of service ass urance, 
high levels of reliability and continued availability. 
5.2 infrastructure capabilities type interoperability testing 
cloud infrastructure includes compute, storage, network and other hardware resources, as well as software 
assets. abstraction and control of physical resources are essential means to achieve on -demand and elastic 
characteristics of cloud infrastructure. this way, physical resources can be abstracted into virtual machines 
(vms), virtual storage and virtual networks. the abstracted reso urces are controlled to meet cloud service 
customers' (csc) needs. [itu-t y.3510] 
the goal for cloud infrastructure capabilities type interoperability is to devise and implement testing methods 
and conduct a basic set of functional tests for infrastructure capabilities type (iaas) interoperability in a hybrid 
cloud environment using both private and public clouds. 
