8 assisting developing countries  
 
1108  
9.6 compliance limitations 
currently, there are no clear policies or regulatory frameworks on the provision of cloud computing services 
in most developing countries. equally, there is a lack of standards adoption that will ensure adherence to 
international best practices for which csps could be held accountable. this has had adverse implications on 
the speedy uptake of cloud computing services. 
9.7 high cost of broadband internet 
in its report of september 2017 [b-itu/unesco] "the state of broadband: broadband catalysing sustainable 
development", the broadband commission projected internet penetration in developing world to reach 
41.3per cent by the end 2017. affordability, lack of skills and infrastructure are the reasons among the large 
gaps in connectivity around the world. 
internet is still not affordable in developing countries and cloud computing can be very expensive, especially 
in terms of bandwidth consumption, according to 75 per cent of the questionnaire respondents.  
besides the obvious factors, migration to cloud computing could lead to unexpected additional costs 
according to the [b -itu-d report] in april 2012 entitled "cloud computing in africa: situation and 
perspectives". indeed, some operations can be very cost ly especially if they are not well planned in the 
timeline. for example, moving large volumes of data to or from the cloud can be very expensive. the same 
is true of data storage on the cloud for very long periods. such an operation can be very expensive w ithout 
the service user realizing it in the short term. 
10 general recommendations on adoption of cloud computing by developing countries 
general recommendations on cloud computing adoption in developing countries are listed and described as 
follows: 
10.1 regulatory framework 
the provision and uptake of cloud services require an enabling environment respectively for csps and cscs. 
a number of issues such as cyber security, privacy, data centre location and quality of service have to be 
looked into to make this possible.  
international standardization organizations should participate in developing a model regulatory framework 
which developing countries can easily adopt.  
10.2 standards adoption 
developing countries are encouraged to adopt/adapt international standards relating to security and trust 
to stimulate the uptake of cloud computing services.  
10.3 basic broadband infrastructure 
broadband is the main infrastructure requirement to access cloud computing services. as such, it is necessary 
to ensure that broadband infrastructure is developed as the bedrock for cloud services to thrive. 
policy makers and regulators should put in place policies and regulations that support the development of 
broadband infrastructure. 
10.4 internet exchange points 
ixp can reduce the exchange of data between csps.  
it is recommended that developing countries consider the establishment of national and regional ixp.  
