1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
310  
in the service expansion shown in figure iii.1-c, two new resources that are different from the primary csp's 
resource are added by secondary csps a and b. these might be software packages or platform -type 
applications. with the support of the secondary csps, the primary csp can offer a wide-variety service, which 
now consists of various service components. 
from the viewpoint of inter-cloud patterns, which are described in clauses 7 and 8, inter-cloud federation is 
suitable for volume -based service expansion. the description of the inter -cloud federation in clause 8.2 
focuses o n resource reservation, use and release. inter -cloud intermediary is suitable for variety -based 
service expansion. the description of the inter-cloud intermediary in clause 8.3 underlines the significance of 
the catalogue of service offerings.  
iii.2 service operation enhancement 
inter-cloud interaction enables not only service expansion as described in clause iii.1, which matters more at 
the beginning of a service offering, but can also enhance the ways that services are offered. this relates more 
to the entire process of offering a service.  
figure iii.2 shows two such enhancements.  
primary csp
csc
secondary csp
secondary csp secondary csp
y .3511(14)_fiii.2
primary csp
primary csp primary csp
csc
csc csc
c) reliable service offering with secondary csp –
despite problems with primary csp, two units
are offered without interrupting the user.
a) basic model –
two units are offered to a user.
d) elastic service –
one to three units are offered
according to user's demand.
b) v olume expansion –
three units are offered beyond primary capacity
 
figure iii.2 – operational enhancement in inter-cloud computing 
in figure iii.2, volume expansions are assumed. for the sake of comparison, f igures iii.2-a and iii.2-b depict 
item expansion as already discussed in clause iii.1, whereas cases c) and d) depict operation enhancement.  
the basic scenario is shown in figure iii.2-a again, which offers two resource units (e.g., two vms) to a user. 
a simple service item expansion is shown in figure iii.2-b.  
with the help of secondary csps, the primary csp can keep offering the service even if something unexpected 
happens to the primary csp, which is shown in figure iii.2-c. due to the availability of cloud technology across 
multiple csps, the secondary csp can compensate for the unavailable resources by offering alternative 
resources on behalf of the primary csp. the primary csp can offer the same service continuously with 
minimal or no interruption to the user. 
