 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   41 
use case 
pre-conditions in this service syndication example involving multiple clouds, voice application is being 
provided as saas to a csp that is bundling it with other services and reselling a package to a 
csc. although a voice application service provider may run a global data network, it does not 
own the carrier's network and enterprise infrastructures that actually connect the cloud and 
network services to end-user devices. a local service provider might provide an ip network 
service to provide an optimized voice application experience for an enterprise customer's 
employees using the voice application service. 
in this use case, there are the two types of connection paths, namely a service delivery path 
and a service management path. when the csc is experiencing a problem with the voice 
application service, the responsibility for the diagnostics, management and resolution of the 
problem involves more than one service provider. 
end-to-end resource management cannot require a major system integration effort with each 
new service deployment. in order for the composite cloud computing services to work 
effectively, all the prerequisite services of both the csp1 and csp2 must function properly. 
post-conditions voice application service is restored rapidly and easily. 
end-to-end resource management of components that deliver the voice application customer 
service support and the administrative, provisioning, service assurance and billing that make 
up a complete voice application service is necessary. 
requirements – manageability for a single cloud service 
– manageability for multiple cloud services 
i.10 cloud infrastructure use case 
use case 
name cloud infrastructure use case 
abstract the csp uses cloud infrastructure which consists of compute, storage and network resources 
to deploy and deliver any kinds of cloud services. 
the csc accesses and uses cloud services deployed in and delivered by cloud infrastructure.  
roles csc, csp 
figure 
 

