7 security  
 
1028 
8.2 data encryption and key management 
encryption and key management are the core mechanisms to protect data in cl oud computing systems. 
encryption provides a resource protection capability, while key management provides cryptographic keys 
control which are used to protect resources. 
the specific implementation of encryption should be clearly defined in the security c lause of sla. 
furthermore, the encryption should follow the relevant industrial and governmental standards. csps or cscs 
should seriously consider the following elements:  
1) encryption of data transmission in network. it is especially important to secure credentials such as 
financial information, passwords, etc. 
2) encryption of static data on the disk or in the database. it could be used to prevent malicious csps 
or malicious neighbour tenants. 
3) encryption of data in backup media. it could be used to pr event data leakage in case the backup 
media were lost or stolen. 
if csp is the main enforcer of data encryption, key management is an essential issue in daily operations. csp 
should define and execute an integrated key management in the life cycle including the generation, use, 
store, backup, recovery, update and destroy. csps should also consider the following issues: 
1) protection of key storage : key storage must be protected as any other sensitive data or even its 
security level must be higher than others. only a specific entity can access the key storage. related 
policies are also needed like separation of roles to enforce a stronger access control. 
2) backup and recovery: as an unexpected loss of a specific key may destroy a service, it is neces sary 
to implement a key backup and recovery solution. 
3) introduction of the third party for key management: by a series of task separation, it could help csps 
avoid conflict with legal requirements when data in cloud computing systems is claimed to be 
provided. 
8.3 system security monitoring 
in daily operations, csps should  undertake centralized real -time security monitoring on the cloud platform 
and infrastructure, which includes the running status of various physical and virtual resources. by considering 
the key terms of sla (such as network performance, utilization of host resource and storage, etc.), and 
analysing all kinds of logs, csps can perform fault management, performance management and automatic 
inspection management to achieve the goal for rea l-time or quasi real-time monitoring of the health status 
of cloud resources. 
in general, the monitoring logs are managed and strictly protected by csps. nevertheless, once needed by 
csc, csp could provide csc with related monitoring logs as they claimed, for instance, csc might need related 
monitoring logs to do trouble shooting in emergency response. 
csps can also proactively detect potential operational risks and resolve them timely. furthermore, csps 
should provide the capability of correlation analysis between cscs and their services provided by csps, which 
can be implemented to diagnose the quality and security status of cloud services. 
there are two kinds of security monitoring modes: automatic monitoring and manual inspection, which rely 
on the technical means and management of individual csps. the object of security monitoring involves: 
1) health status monitoring of the cloud computing infrastructure: csps should provide the capability 
to collect and monitor the security event logs, vulnerability information, alteration of security device 
configuration, performance and operational status on all objects of the cloud computing 
infrastructure, which include virtual machine (vm) resources, cloud computing management 
platform, security devices, database, etc. this monitoring can help csps to keep a perceptive 
awareness of the overall health status and operating status of the cloud infrastructure. 
