xaas 3 
 
732  
1 scope 
this recommendation focuses mainly on the security requirements of software as a service ( saas) 
application environments based on the  saas application maturity level.  the target audiences of this 
recommendation are cloud service providers (csps) and cloud service partners (csns) such as application 
developers. 
2 references 
none. 
3 definitions 
3.1 terms defined elsewhere 
this recommendation uses the following terms defined elsewhere: 
3.1.1 cloud service [b-itu-t y.3500]: one or more capabilities offered via  cloud computing invoked using 
a defined interface. 
3.1.2 cloud service category [b-itu-t y.3500]: group of cloud services that possess some common set of 
qualities. 
3.1.3 cloud service customer [b-itu-t y.3500]: party which is in a business relationship for the purpose of 
using cloud services. 
3.1.4 cloud service partner [b-itu-t y.3500]: party which is engaged in support of, or auxiliary to, activities 
of either the cloud service provider or the cloud service customer, or both. 
3.1.5 cloud service provider [b-itu-t y.3500]: party which makes cloud services available. 
3.1.6 cloud service user [b-itu-t y.3500]: natural person, or entity acting on their behalf, associated with 
a cloud service customer that uses cloud services. 
3.1.7 desktop as a service  [b-itu-t y.3500]: the capabilities provided to the  cloud service customer are 
the ability to build, configure, manage, store, execute, and deliver users' desktop functions remotely. 
3.1.8 infrastructure as a service (iaas)  [b-itu-t y.3500]:  cloud service category in which the  cloud 
capabilities type provided to the cloud service customer is an infrastructure capabilities type. 
3.1.9 software as a service (saas) [b-itu-t y.3500]: cloud service category in which the cloud capabilities 
type provided to the cloud service customer is an application capabilities type. 
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation 
none. 
4 abbreviations and acronyms 
this recommendation uses the following abbreviations and acronyms: 
asp application service provider 
caas communications as a service 
crm customer relationship management 
csc cloud service customer 
csn cloud service partner 
csp cloud service provider 
daas desktop as a service 
