4 video processing and storage  
 
764  
dynamically create and destroy the video-forwarding function according to the current requests of the mcu. 
after that, the transcoded video stream is sent to the mcu. 
6.3 online intelligent video processing 
6.3.1 case 1: traffic flow analysis 
the traffic department of a city has deployed an intelligent visual surveillance (ivs) system for city roads. the 
system administrator is responsible for operating the ivs system to carry out traffic management tasks. the 
work of the administrator is to monitor real -time traffic flow of key road sections in the traffic rush hour. a 
traffic flow analysis function can be developed based on computer vision technology, and is virtualized as 
functional components in the cloud computing platform. when a user needs to obtain the traffic flow 
situation of certain road sections, the system can call the traffic flow analysis function to process the relevant 
surveillance video streams. 
step 1: users log into the ivs system through the cu. they choose certain surveillance cameras that are 
deployed on key road sections of interest and set the traffic flow analy sis function. they then submit traffic 
flow analysis requests to the ivs system.  
step 2: after receiving the traffic flow analysis request, the ivs system authenticates the user information, 
and obtains the relevant information from the traffic flow analy sis function that is deployed on the cloud 
computing platform. the cloud computing platform can dynamically create and destroy the traffic flow 
analysis function components according to current user requests. the ivs system then responds to the cu 
with the information from the traffic flow analysis function. 
step 3: after receiving the response of the ivs system, the cu sends the request to the cloud computing 
platform. 
step 4: the cloud computing platform obtains the relevant video streams from the corresp onding cameras, 
online processes the video streams and then sends the real-time traffic flow analysis results back to the cu. 
6.3.2 case 2: perimeter prevention 
an electricity company uses an ivs system to monitor key power transmission equipment deployed in a city. 
surveillance cameras are deployed around the power transmission equipment and the ivs system online 
analyses the captured surveillance video by calling the perimeter prevention function. once someone 
approaches the power transmission equipment, the ivs system generates an alarm message to alert the user 
to the exception. the perimeter prevention function is virtualized as functional components in the cloud 
computing platform, and can be dynamically created and destroyed according to current user requests. the 
working step of the online perimeter prevention scenario is similar to that of the online traffic flow analysis 
scenario. 
6.4 offline intelligent video processing 
6.4.1 case 1: human recognition 
a public security department has deployed an iv s system in a city street. the system administrator is 
responsible for operating the ivs system to carry out public security tasks.  when there is a robbery in front 
of a bank, t he administrator reviews the relevant surveillance video captured by the camera s deployed 
around the bank and obtains a picture of the robber. to find the escape route of the robber as soon as 
possible, the administrator uses the intelligent human recognition function of the ivs system to process the 
massive related historical surveillance video. the intelligent human recognition function can be virtualized as 
functional components in the cloud computing platform and can be dynamically created according to user 
demand. 
step 1: users log into the ivs system through the cu. to quickly f ind robber information in the massive 
surveillance video data, the user needs to set several functional parameters, such as the camera channel 
numbers, the time period of interest in the historical video and the picture of the robber, and then sends an 
intelligent human recognition request to the ivs system. 
