framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   213 
appendix ii 
 
use cases of the physical machine for cloud computing 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
this appendix describes physical machine related use cases. 
table ii.1 – providing iaas service with processing resource – use case 
title providing iaas service with processing resource use case 
description infrastructure capabilities type, especially for providing vm, which is resided on a physical 
machine. the virtual machine provides a virtualized and isolated computing environment for 
each guest operating system (os) with processing, storage, networking and other hardware 
resources. usually a physical machine would carry more than one virtual machine and needs 
to provide more virtual cpu than physical cpu, so as the memory and i/o devices. 
furthermore, the physical machine usually provides a management function for the csp to 
manage and monitor the physical machines. the loading information would help the csp to 
select which host to deploy the vms and the fault location information could help the csp 
easily replace the failure component. as more applications run in one physical machine, the 
reliability is required so that it could continue to run and bear the services without migrating 
when there are few failures. as some applications may require some other hardware 
components with special features, the physical machine would have to reserve one or more 
extended interfaces for adding cloud resources. to improve the vm's performance, the 
physical machines usually use cpus with virtualization instruction set support. for situations 
with a lot of network traffic processing, physical machines can offload traffic processing to 
i/o devices to improve performance and reduce the load of cpus.  
roles/sub-roles csp: cloud service operations manager 
figure 
 
pre-conditions 
(optional) 
the virtual machine resides on the physical machine. 
post-conditions 
(optional) 
csp: cloud service operations manager wants to build or expand a resource pool to provide 
vm service. 

