1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
134  
i.10 a use case of storage optimization 
title a use case for storage optimization based on the customer's purpose  
in data storage federation 
description when a dsf local storage provider provides the information of his/her cloud storage services 
with a dsf service provider, the dsf service provider optimizes a single virtual volume according 
to the requirements of the user, such as data safety and storage performance. a detailed 
explanation is as follows: the dsf service provider configures the single virtual volume based on 
the cloud storages provided by dsf local storage provider. the following optimization policies 
can be applied and the decision of the optimization policy can be done by the dsf service 
customer according to his requirements. 
(1) the dsf local storage provider registered multiple cloud storages to the dsf service provider.  
(2) dsf service provider provides optimization tool for a single virtual volume. 
(3) dsf service customer chooses optimization policy related with; 
a. data safety and storage performance (a): dsf service providers provide a binding function 
that configures a virtual, single data storage for efficient management of distributed data 
storage that is available to customers. in addition, dsf service providers provide real -time 
monitoring of the performance of each data storage and use it with a mirroring mechanism 
to provide optimized services for stability and performance. for example, when a dsf service 
customer uses his or her own data, virtual data storage provides a service by selecting a data 
storage that can provide optimal service among the mirrored data storage ; 
b. enhancement of performance without storage mirroring (b): dsf service provider provides 
real-time performance monitoring for each data storage. using this, the dsf service provider 
determines the priority of the data storage that can provide the optimal service and then 
transfers the data to that storage in appropriate timing. therefore, customers can always 
receive service from optimal data storage; 
c. enhancement of performance considering user mobility (c): basically, since the dsf service 
is affected by the data transmission performance of the network, the performance of the 
dsf service can be greatly influenced by the location of the customer. therefore, the dsf 
service provider provides optimization not only for the performance for each data storage 
but also for the network situation at the user's location. virtual data storage provides real-
time switching function to the best possible data storage depending on the customer's 
location. 
(4) based on the optimization policy selected by the customer, the dsf service provider 
optimizes the service. after this processing,  
(5) dsf service customers use services optimized for their purposes. 
role/sub-role dsf service provider (csp:sfp) 
dsf service customer (csc:csu) 
dsf local storage provider (csp:csm) 
