1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
180  
figure 6-2 depicts an overview of the physical machine. the scope of this recommendation focuses on the 
physical machine. 
 
figure 6-2 – overview of the physical machine 
the physical machine is composed of multiple components, which are described as follows: 
– processing units : a processing unit has cpus, memories, storages and i/o devices. these sub -
components in a processing unit are physically implemented on a motherboard. the processing unit 
is the basic element as a hardware processing resource and normally multiple processing units are 
involved to provide capacity of resources.  processing units is a mandatory component for the 
physical machine. a single processing unit type physical machine has only one processing unit, while 
a multi-processing unit type physical machine has two or more processing units. 
– interconnect network: an interconnect network has a role of connecting multiple processing units 
aiming to be used to shar e resources in individual processing units through virtualization. in 
addition, the interconnect network provides a communication interface to other external physical 
machines. an interconnect network is an optional component only for multi -processing unit type 
physical machines. 
– enclosure: an enclosure includes multiple processing units and other components such as power 
supply, cooling and interconnect network (in some cases) by providing the form factor with metal 
apparatus that specifies the physical dimensions of a physical machine.  the enclosure also shields 
the electromagnetic components and helps to dissipate heat of other components. an enclosure is 
a mandatory component for a physical machine. 
– power supply: a power supply provides electrical po wer to all components in an enclosure. the 
power supply converts ac power into dc power which all components use to operate and provides 
redundancy to ensure that the stability and operability of a physical machine is maintained even in 
the case that a physical machine's power goes out. power supply is a mandatory component for the 
physical machine. 
– cooling: a cooling system is for maintaining a certain range of temperature in an enclosure by 
cooling heat generated due to operation of the physical machine. the implementation type can vary 
depending on cooling materials (e.g., air -cooled or a water-cooled type) and form factors (e.g., air 
flow or water pipes) of an enclosure. cooling is a mandatory component for the physical machine. 

