1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
124  
8.4 metadata and policy management requirements 
(1) it is recommended that csp:sfp provide a configuration of a single virtual volume by data storage 
policy for csc:csu. 
(2) it is recommended that csp:sfp provide default data storage policies when policy is not configured. 
note 1 – default data policy is reconfigured by customer's requests. 
(3) it is recommended that csp:dmp provide a transformation of dsf data by data manipulation policy. 
note 2  – data manipulation policy for transformation of dsf data includes the policies of fragmentation, 
encryption, compression, de-duplication, etc. 
(4) it is recommended that csp:dmp provide a default data manipulation policy. 
(5) it is required that csp:sfp provide a global registry for customer data access. 
(6) it is required that csp:sfp provide high-speed access of global registry. 
(7) it is required that csp:dmp provide management of data operation metadata  automatically 
according to execution of data operation. 
(8) it is required that csp:sfp provide storage management metadata to communicate with dsf local 
storage. 
9 security considerations 
it is recommended that the security framework for cloud computing described in [b -itu-t x.1601] be 
considered for data storage federation. [b-itu-t x.1601] analyses security threats and challenges in the cloud 
computing environment and describes security capabilities that could mitigate these threats and meet 
security challenges. 
[b-itu-t x.1631] provid es guidelines supporting the implementation of information security controls for 
cloud service customers and cloud service providers. many of the guidelines guide the cloud service providers 
to assist the cloud service customers in implementing the controls and guide the cloud service customers to 
implement such controls. selection of appropriate information security controls and the application of the 
implementation guidance provided, will depend on a risk assessment as well as any legal, contractual, 
regulatory or other cloud-sector specific information security requirements. 
it is also recommended that the guidelines for cloud service customer data security described in 
[b-itu-t x.1641] be considered. it provides generic security guidelines for the cloud service customer (csc) 
data in cloud computing, analyses the csc data security lifecycle and proposes security requirements at each 
stage of the data lifecycle. 
  
