1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
252  
appendix iii 
 
a comparison of distributed cloud with related technology 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
this appendix identifies a comparison of the distributed cloud, edge computing, fog computing, multi-access 
edge computing and cloudlet. there are various technologies related to the edge of the network, such as 
edge computing, fog computing, cloudlet and multi-access edge computing. the edge -related technologies 
fully or partially utilize cloud computing technology. in the perspective of multi -cloud, distributed cloud 
extends a cloud to the edge of the network. accordingly, the distributed cloud and the ed ge-related 
technologies definitely have a common point. thus, it is necessary to compare key features and show the 
coverage of them among the distributed cloud and the edge related technologies. in this appendix, the 
coverage of key features among the dist ributed cloud and the edge -related technologies are analysed and 
illustrated as follow: 
– cloud computing focuses on non-real-time services and supports periodic maintenance and service 
decision – making while distributed cloud extends the cloud computing capabilities to the edge and 
supports real-time smart processing and execution of local services. distributed cloud takes core, 
regional and edge as a whole and closely interacts with one another. resource -constrained, 
unreliable or bandwidth -limited netwo rk connections, or applications that demand very high 
bandwidth, low latency, or widespread compute capacity across many sites are considered by 
distributed cloud but not involved with cloud computing. 
– edge computing is performed on an open platform at t he edge of the network near things or data 
sources, integrating network, computing, storage and application core capabilities and providing 
edge intelligent services. edge computing meets the requirements of industrial digitalization for 
agile connections,  real-time services, data optimization, smart application, security and privacy 
protection. local devices and their capabilities are a part of edge computing while distributed cloud 
is not involved with local devices. the major scenario of edge computing f ocuses on iot, but 
distributed cloud has many scenarios beside iot. big data analytics is considered as one of the key 
capabilities for edge computing while distributed cloud treats it as a service which it’s carried on. 
• fog computing is a horizontal, physical or virtual resource paradigm that resides between smart 
end-devices and traditional cloud or data centres. fog computing supports vertically isolated, 
latency-sensitive applications by providing ubiquitous, scalable, layered feder ated and distributed 
computing, storage and network connectivity. rather than a substitute, fog computing often serves 
as a complement to cloud computing. fog computing is mainly for iot scenarios while distributed 
cloud has many scenarios beside iot. it i s similar to edge computing where the local devices are 
involved for fog computing but the infrastructure of distributed cloud only includes data centres. 
– multi-access edge computing  (mec) offers cloud -computing capabilities and an it service 
environment at the edge of the network and provides ultra-low latency and high bandwidth as well 
as real -time access to radio network information that can be leveraged by applications. mec is 
mainly for mobile scenarios and is extending to fixed mobile convergence sc enarios. the scope of 
mec is involved in distributed cloud. 
– cloudlet can be viewed as a "data centre in a box", which represents the middle tier of a three-tier 
hierarchy "mobile or iot device  – cloudlet – cloud", whose goal is to bring the cloud closer.  it is 
mainly for scenarios of convergence of mobile and cloud computing. the scope of cloudlet is 
involved in distributed cloud. 
  
