1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
290  
y .3511(14)_f8-6
csc csp a csp b csp c
secondary cspsprimary csp
matching between qos requirements and sla, and policy negotiation
1) service utilization
collaboration starts
2) resource information request
3) resource information response
4) resource reservation
5) resource set-up and service activation
6) resource release
resource in use
collaboration finished
 
figure 8-6 – interaction among csps in inter-cloud federation 
when the federation is esta blished, the primary and the secondary csps perform matching between qos 
requirements and sla, and policy negotiation. the next steps as shown in figure 8-6 are as follows: 
1) the csc starts to use the service of csp a. csp a is the primary csp for this csc; 
2) the primary csp (i.e., csp a) decides to initiate an interaction due to a shortage of resources that 
results in service quality degradation. csp a requests information about the resources (e.g., vms 
and storage) from csp b and csp c. csp b and csp c are the secondary csps for this interaction; 
3) csp b and csp c provide responses to csp a regarding available resources; 
4) on the basis of the received responses, csp a reserves the resources of csp b. in this step, csp a 
estimates the performance of the  resources available in csp b and confirms that the estimated 
performance is acceptable; 
5) csp a sets up the resources of csp b and activates the service (this action can be considered as vm 
migration or application rebuilding). as a result, service quality is maintained. 
6) csp a decides to end the collaboration with csp b (e.g.,  csp a has sufficient resources to provide 
services by itself or demand for services has decreased). csp a releases the resources provided by 
csp b. 
these steps can be applied to every csp involved in the inter-cloud federation. each csp in the federation is 
the primary csp for its own cscs and the csps providing resources to a primary csp can be considered as the 
secondary csps. 
the way a primary csp requests resources from the secondary csps may vary from:  
– "more-specific" resources request which includes detailed descriptions and may limit the number 
of candidate resources and resulting responses from the secondary csps but may obtain optimal 
resources if responded. however, co mplicated resource calculation and performance estimation 
may be necessary. a "more-specific" resources request is adequate when the cost associated with 
the offered resources is high and sensitive;  
– "less-specific" resources request soliciting more offe rings and resulting in a simple and quick 
decision, although the offered resources may not be optimal.  
a primary csp may only receive and use a certain number of responses to reduce the processing burden 
caused by a large number of responses. 
details related to "more-specific" and "less-specific" resource requests are for further study. 
