cloud computing management 2 
 
  503 
7 e2e cloud service lifecycle management functional requirements 
this clause provides requirements of e2e cloud service lifecycle management derived from the use cases 
described in appendix i. 
7.1 service management interface 
it is recommended that the csp provides smi between cloud services and an e2e cloud service lifecycle 
management system. 
it is recommended that the csp provides management functionalities of its own cloud service to others csps 
through smi between csps. 
7.2 self-service 
it is recommended that the csp provides an easy method ( web portal or other automated approaches ) to 
discover, purchase, configure, deploy, activate and d eactivate a s ervice and to check service status to 
the csc. 
7.3 service maintenance 
it is recommended that the csp provides automated software enabled cloud services for continuous service 
maintenance to manage stability and availability of its service.  
7.4 reporting 
it is recommended that the csp provides functions to report (according to local laws and regulations) service 
health condition, performance, security, geo -location of services, events and other related activities which 
affect e2e cloud service performance. 
7.5 composite applications or mash-ups 
it is recommended that the csp provides functions to support the rapid delivery of cloud services that are 
delivered as composite apps, or mash -ups built from multiple services implemented by multiple cloud 
providers residing in different domains. 
7.6 traditional business processes 
it is recommended that the csp provides functions to  support the application of traditional business 
processes associated with administration, provisioning/configuration, service assurance and charging 
/billing/settlement involved across inter-clouds residing in different domains. 
7.7 decommissioning 
it is recommended that the csp provides automatic de-commissioning of service resources either based on 
original service request expiration date or csc decommission request initiated while the service is running. 
7.8 policy 
it is recommended that the csp provides a set of policies for cloud service access and control.  
7.9 lifecycle stage management 
it is required that the csp provides the ability to run the given service through its lifecycle stages and offers 
the needed functionality at every step of the process. 
7.10 service automation and continuous delivery 
it is required for the csp to enable automated response to deal with the de mand variat ions and offer 
necessary feedback to effect changes in the iterative design, by monitoring the service during its operation 
in order to provide the necessary service automation and continuous delivery without human intervention. 
