 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   379 
below arethe key characteristics of cloud computing described in [itu-t y.3500]: 
− broad network access : a feature where the physical and virtual resources are available over a 
network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous client 
platforms. the focus of this key characteristic is that cloud computing offers an increased level of 
convenience in that users can access physical and virtual resourc es from wherever they need to 
work, as long as it is network accessible, using a wide variety of clients including devices such as 
mobile phones, tablets, laptops and workstations. 
− measured service: a feature where the metered delivery of cloud services is such that usage can be 
monitored, controlled, reported and billed. this is an important feature needed to optimize and 
validate the delivered cloud service. the focus of this key characteristic is that the customer may 
only pay for the resources that they use. from the customers' perspective, cloud computing offers 
the users value by enabling a switch from a low efficiency and asset utilization business model to a 
high efficiency one. 
− multi-tenancy: a feature where physical or virtual resources are allocated in such a way that 
multiple tenants and their computations and data are isolated from and inaccessible to one another. 
typically, and within the context of multi -tenancy, the group of cloud service users that form a 
tenant will all belong to the same cloud service customer organization. there might be cases where 
the group of cloud service users involves users from multiple different cloud service customers, 
particularly in the case of public cloud and community cloud deployments. however, a given  cloud 
service customer organization might have many different tenancies with a single cloud service 
provider representing different groups within the organization. 
− on-demand self -service: a feature where a cloud service customer can provision computing 
capabilities, as needed, automatically or with minimal interaction with the cloud service provider. 
the focus of this key characteristic is that cloud computing offers users a relative reduction in the 
costs, time and effort needed to take an action, since i t grants the user the ability to do what they 
need, when they need it, without requiring additional human user interactions or overheads. 
− rapid elasticity and scalability : a feature where physical or virtual resources can be rapidly and 
elastically adjusted, in some cases automatically, to quickly increase or decrease resources. for the 
cloud service customer, the physical or virtual resources available for provisioning often appear to 
be unlimited and can be purchased in any quantity at any time automatica lly, subject to the 
constraints of service agreements. therefore, the focus of this key characteristic is that cloud 
computing means that customers no longer need to worry about limited resources and might not 
need to worry about capacity planning. 
− resource pooling: a feature where a cloud service provider's physical or virtual resources can be 
aggregated in order to serve one or more cloud service customers. the focus of this key 
characteristic is that cloud service providers can support multi-tenancy while at the same time using 
abstraction to mask the complexity of the process from the customer. from the customer's 
perspective, all they know is that the service works, while they generally have no control or 
knowledge over how the resources are being provi ded or where the resources are located. this 
offloads some of the customer's original workload, such as maintenance requirements, to the 
provider. even with this level of abstraction, it should be pointed out that users might still be able 
to specify locations at a higher level of abstraction (e.g., country, state, or data centre). 
the general requirements for cloud computing described in [itu-t y.3501] are as follows: 
− service life -cycle management : it is required that the cloud service provider ( csp) suppo rts 
automated service provisioning, modification and termination during the service life-cycle. 
− regulatory: it is required that all applicable laws and regulations be respected, including those 
related to the protection of personally identifiable information (pii). 
− security: it is required that the cloud computing systems provided by a csp be appropriately secured 
to protect the interests of all involved parties (e.g., persons and organizations). 
