4 video processing and storage  
 
762  
1 scope 
this recommendation specifies the application scenarios and requirements for a cloud computing platform 
supporting a visual surveillance system. 
2 references 
none. 
3 definitions 
3.1 terms defined elsewhere 
this recommendation uses the following terms defined elsewhere: 
3.1.1 application [b-itu-t y.101]: a structured set of capabilities, which provide value-added functionality 
supported by one or more services. 
3.1.2 cloud computing [b-itu-t y.3500]: paradigm for enabling network access to a scalable and elastic 
pool of shareable physical or virtual resources with self-service provisioning and administration on-demand. 
note – examples of resources include servers, operating systems, networks, software, applications and 
storage equipment. 
3.1.3 customer [b-itu-t m.60]: an entity which receives services offered by a service provider based on 
a contractual relationship. it may include the role of a network user. 
3.1.4 customer unit [b-itu-t h.626]: a device located at the customer part of a visual surveillance system 
and used to present multimedia information (such as audio, video, image, alarm signal, etc.) to the end user. 
3.1.5 mobile customer unit (m_cu) [b-itu-t h.626.1]: mobile client software installed in a customer's 
mobile devices. the m_cu is used to initiate the service and provide customers with video viewing. 
3.1.6 premises unit [b-itu-t h.626]: a device located at the remote part of a visual surveillance system 
and used to capture multimedia information (such as audio, video, image, alarm signal, etc.) from a surveilled 
object. 
3.1.7 visual surveillance [b-itu-t h.626]: a telecommunication service focusing on video (but including 
audio) application technology, which is used to remotely capture multimedia (such as audio, video, image,  
alarm signals, etc.) and present them to the end user in a user -friendly manner, based on a  managed 
broadband network with ensured quality, security and reliability. 
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation 
none. 
4 abbreviations and acronyms 
this recommendation uses the following abbreviations and acronyms: 
cu customer unit 
ivs intelligent visual surveillance 
mcu mobile customer unit 
msu media storage unit 
pu premises unit 
vs visual surveillance 
vscc visual surveillance cloud computing 
