security 7 
 
  1023 
7 requirements of the security clause of the service level agreement 
the security clause of the service level agreement (sla) is the critical factor for csp to obtain the user's trust. 
the relationship between cscs and csps,  such as security responsibility, should be described clearly by the 
security clause of sla. csps should focus their operational security measures on fulfilling the requirements 
defined by the security clause of sla. 
7.1 security responsibility between csps and cscs  
the responsibilities of both csps and cscs should be delineated in as far as the security of cloud computing 
is concerned in accordance with the various control abilities over the infrastructure and resources of cloud 
computing. 
the security responsibilities are closely re lated with the cloud service mode, as the cloud service mode 
reflects the resource control capability in the cloud environment for csps and cscs. for instance, compared 
to platform as a service (paas) or infrastructure as a service (iaas), csps in software as a service (saas) should 
undertake more security responsibilities as with a stronger resource control capability on hand.  
for the service mode of iaas, csps provide the infrastructure services, such as the virtual data centre (vdc) 
which includes hosted servers, storage resource, network and management tools. the fundamental security 
responsibilities of csps include physical security, network security, underlying system security and the 
reliability of the whole cloud infrastructure. cscs should be in charge of all the security issues above the level 
of the cloud infrastructure which they purchase, such as the security of the guest o perating system (os), 
application software, etc. 
for the service mode of paas, csps provide simplified, distributed software  development, testing and 
deployment environment. csps should be responsible for the security of the application programming 
interface (api) of the application environment, the security of middleware, the availability of cloud platform, 
etc., as well as the security of the underlying infrastructure. on the other hand, cscs should be responsible 
for the security of the application services running over the cloud platform environment. 
for the service mode of saas, csps should guarantee the overall security from the infrastructure layer to the 
application layer, and cscs should maintain the information security related to them, such as the security of 
identity management (idm), password leakage proofing and so on. 
furthermore, cscs should consider the security issues of the terminals that they use to access the cloud. 
7.2 requirements of the security clause of sla 
7.2.1 general requirements 
the security clause of sla should explicitly specify the security terms of the cloud services, as well as the 
responsibilities and liabilities of csps and cscs. 
from the csc's perspective, cscs should be able to stipulate their requirements concerning the security 
clause of sla. the security clause of sla can help them ensure that their csps have adequate protection for 
their information assets, resources and services customized  while at res t, in use and in motion , and that 
corrective mechanisms have been implemented to comply with the regulations on data privacy associated 
with their governing jurisdiction. 
from the csp's perspective, the security clause of sla  stipulates the requirements and measureable terms 
of the security of the cloud service provided, which can be assessed, compared and customized by cscs. csps 
should implement a series of appropriate technological and management mechanisms to improve the 
reliability and security of the cloud services, and fulfil the requirements of the security clause of sla, which 
can ultimately obtain the trust of cscs. cloud services may have different types of slas due to the content 
of the services, the service grade, and even the reg ion where the services are provided, but the minimal 
requirements of the security clause of sla should meet the legal and regulatory requirements as well as those 
of related public industry standards. 
