monitoring 6 
 
   949 
 
figure 6-2 – functional components of the cloud computing reference architecture 
7 monitoring parameters 
monitoring cloud resources and services is a key tool that helps cloud computing providers and consumers 
in designing, building and improving a cloud system, eliminating performance bottlenecks and identifying 
security flaws. applications (e.g., streaming,  web, indexing, compute and storage services) are distributed 
across cloud layers including platform as a service (paas) and infrastructure as a service (iaas). in 
consequence, all parameters performed across all layers of the cloud stack need to be metere d and 
monitored. these include not only cloud resource and network access, but also deployed services and 
applications. 
7.1 resource layer parameters 
the resources layer is where the physical and virtual resources, as well as generic software, reside. this layer 
includes equipment typically used in a data centre such as servers, networking switches and routers, storage 
devices, in addition to the corresponding non -cloud specific software that runs on the servers and other 
equipment such as host operating sy stems, hypervisors, device drivers and generic systems management 
software. 
7.1.1 physical computing resources 
physical computing resources include  any hardware within a computer system for running an operating 
system and software.  an iaas administrator ca n add physical computing resources to or remove physical 
computing resources from a virtual machine (vm). 
in order to ensure that the deployed software and hardware resources run at the required level to satisfy the 
service level agreement (sla), a continuous physical resource monitoring process is desirable. 
processors, memory and disks are basic computing and storage resources. monitoring these resources can 
detect system failures or corruption before they become completely non -recoverable. so, monitoring  
functions and status of these resources to ensure system availability benefits users. 

