4 video processing and storage  
 
754  
7.3 video metadata management 
the vs system can p rovide various intelligent services by using video/image analysis technologies. the 
intelligent traffic service is an example. for realizing these intelligent services, some video/image analysis 
algorithms are embedded in the traffic surveillance cameras, and these cameras can directly output video 
content metadata, such as: vehicle plate number, vehicle type, speed of vehicle, colour of vehicle. in addition, 
video analysis servers can be deployed in the data centre, and the surveillance video stream or the recorded 
video files can be processed to obtain the video content metadata on these servers. 
step 1: model the surveillance video metadata, and design and implement the video metadata management 
system in cloud. 
step 2: the surveillance video metadata is obtained from the intelligent video/image analysis devices, and is 
sent to the cloud. 
step 3: an authorized user can browse and retrieve the surveillance video metadata stored in the cloud. 
likewise, authorized application systems can access the video metadata in the cloud, and provide the various 
intelligent services based on the video metadata. 
7.4 picture storage 
case 1: picture upload from surveillance camera 
high-definition cameras are widely deployed on streets to capture high -resolution pictures. these pictures 
may contain useful information and can be processed further. for example, vehicle plate numbers can be 
extracted accurately from a picture by using a vehicle plate recognition algorithm. 
step 1: network cameras continuously capture pictures, and send these pictures directly to the cloud. 
step 2: the cloud storage system receives the pictures, and writes the pictures to the cloud storage resource 
pool built on the storage device clusters. 
step 3: an authorized user or application system can access the pictures stored in the cloud. 
case 2: picture uploading from mobile device 
john is a traffic police officer, and one of his routine tasks is to find illegally parked vehicles and record the 
infraction. 
step 1: john logs into the surveillance system through a mobile device. he captures the picture of an illegally 
parked vehicle using the camera of the mobile device. 
step 2: the captured picture is then sent to the cloud through wireless channels. 
step 3: an authorized user or application system can access the pictures stored in the cloud. 
8 requirements for cloud storage in visual surveillance 
8.1 user requirements 
there are two types of cloud storage service users : the service consumer and the service provider. 
8.1.1 cloud storage service consumer requirements 
– usr-001: a vscs system is required to support registration and de -registration of the end user 
through the interface provided by the system, and the end user can view and modify personal 
information. 
– usr-002: a vscs system is requ ired to support end -user login and logout from the system 
conveniently. the user name and password are required when an end user logs into the system. 
– usr-003: a vscs system is recommended to support end-user view of the user access logs or other 
system logs. 
