intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  931 
openstack works on cloud computing interface related aspects of cci.  it is expected that openstack will 
provide a set of test for cloud computing functions. 
cloud interoperability is one of the most important targets in openstack project. in order to provide cloud 
interoperability, except for native apis support, openstack project also support standardized api 
implementations in openstack project for interoperability insurance. by now, cdmi [ iso 17826:2012] and 
occi [ogf gfd.183] implementation is available for openstack. cdm i is used by openstack to support 
container creation, object upload and object retrieve and so on. occi is used by openstack to support 
authentication, instance creation, volume attachment and so on.  since openstack have implemented 
standard interoperable cloud api such as cdmi and occi, it  can provide a suitable cloud interoperability 
testing environment for specific protocol and helping the study on cloud interoperability testing  
methodology. details cdmi implementation for openstack refer t o https://github.com/osaddon/cdmi. 
details occi implementation for openstack refer to https://github.com/tmetsch/occi-os . 
5.2.3 tools 
vmmark 
vmmark is a free tool that hardware vendors, virtualization software vendors and other organizations use to 
measure the performance and scalability of applications running in virtualized environments.  vmmark is a 
free virtual machine benchmark software suite provided by vmware, which is a commercial company that 
provides cloud and virtualization software and service. 
vmware release vmmark v1 in july 2007. vmmark v1 comprises a series of "sub-tests" that are derived from 
commonly used load-generation tools. the vmmark benchmark refers to this unit of work as a tile. the total 
number of tiles that a system can accommodate provides a coarse -grain measure of that system's 
consolidation capacity. 
vmware released the new version vmmark, vmmark v2 in october 2010. vmmark 2 generates a realistic 
measure of virtualization platform performance by incorporating a variety of platform-level workloads such 
as dynamic virtual machine relocation (vmotion) and dynamic datastore relocation (storage vmotion), in 
addition to traditional application-level workloads. the benchmark system in v mmark 2 comprises a series 
of "sub -tests" that are derived from commonly used load -generation tools and commonly initiated 
virtualization administration tasks. the vmmark 2 benchmark features a tile -based scheme for measuring 
application performance and pr ovides a consistent methodology that captures both the overall scalability 
and individual application performance. the total number of tiles that a multi -host platform can 
accommodate and the performance of each individual workload within the tile determin e the overall 
benchmark score. 
more than ten computer systems have submitted vmmark v2 benchmark results to vmware by now. 
5.3 cloud security standardization activities 
cloud security is an important subject with interoperability testing for the whole areas of cci. this clause 
information is for future study in order to take into account the security interoperability aspects. 
several sdos have begun to study cloud security and several governments are also leading the discussion, 
releasing documents from a wide security point of view taking into account many stakeholders. for example, 
european network information security agency ( enisa) issued cloud computing security assessment and 
nist started fedramp. cloud security includes also political aspects because it faces security threats affecting 
personal and organizational properties. as a result, this supplement lists major sdos, and ref erences 
appropriate security-related specifications case by case. 
