security 7 
 
  1035 
furthermore, some details are essential, including: 
1) the emergency response team members, the specific responsibilities and the contact information 
of each team member. generally speaking, the emergency response team consists of management, 
business, technical, and administrative staff. 
2) the bia results involving the relationship between the various parts of the cloud computing system, 
the priority level of key components, etc. 
3) the criterion procedures and checklists of the cloud computing system recovery. 
4) the inventory of hardware, software, firmware, and other resources to support csps' daily 
operation, with each entry containing specifications like versions, quantities, etc. 
5) the contact information of cscs and the response procedures negot iated by the csps and cscs 
according to the security clause of sla to minimize cscs' loss in a security accident. 
6) generally csp could not have the privilege to access csc's private data unless csp have obtained the 
authorization of csc. in the case of emergency launched by csc, csc might need csp's help to make 
response more effectively and would give csp the authorization for the data. as a part of 
compliance, csp should not abuse the authorization to access csc's data. 
8.9.2 testing and implementation phase 
in order to test the effectiveness of the emergency response plan, csps should organize testing and drills of 
the emergency response plan, with the help of related personnel familiar with the response procedures. the 
testing and drills should meet the following requirements: 
1) the programmes of testing, training and drills should be pre-established. 
2) the detailed process of testing, training and drills should be recorded and reports should be written 
to this effect. 
3) csps and cscs are recommended  to corporately complete a planned testing whenever significant 
changes occur inside or outside the cloud computing condition. 
when security incidents or business interruption occurs, the emergency response plan should be strictly 
enforced once the conditi ons for the launch are met, and all operation logs should be recorded during the 
whole emergency process. afterwards, according to the security  clause of sla, csp should submit the 
response reports to cscs. 
based on the testing, drills and implementation r esults, the emergency response plan should be revised to 
improve its effectiveness and feasibility. 
8.9.3 maintenance phase 
to remain effective, the emergency response plan should always be maintained in a ready state that could 
reflect the requirements of the cloud computing systems, the sla modification, configuration changes, and 
personnel changes. generally, the plan should be reviewed annually to accommodate the changes of the 
actual cloud computing environment. the  modification of the plan is based on the following elements: 
1) the changes of premises, facilities, resources and services. 
2) the changes of the security  clause of sla requirements, critical security configuration, significant 
patch upgrading and backbone team members. 
3) the assessment of the plan's effectiveness upon the detailed records of the actual implementation 
of the plan during the testing and security accidents. 
8.10 backup 
backup capability is an important issue for cscs and csps in the cloud computing environment. before 
running the backup activities, csps need to address some specifications such as: 
− the backup strategy for each csc or a specific cloud service; 
− the storage method including encryption or not; 
