cloud computing management 2 
 
  485 
• it is recommended that the cloud computing platform supports workload portability and related 
management capabilities (e.g., control, operation and monitoring) amongst cloud service providers, 
supporting various cloud deployment models [itu-t y.3500], in a cost effective way.  
8 cloud resource management for emergency telecommunications 
emergency telecommunications (et) [b-itu-t y.2205] are any emergency related service that requires special 
handling relative to other services (i.e., priority access for authorized users and priority treatment to 
emergency traffic). 
while not always required, if the resources of the csp are us ed to support the emergency 
telecommunications service (ets) [ b-itu-t e.107 ], appropriate resource management functions will be 
needed to allow priority treatment in the use of the cloud computing resources by authorized users. the 
requirements in [b-itu-t y.1271] are relevant. 
note – requirements in [ b-itu-t y.1271] apply across multiple layers of the cloud comput ing reference architecture 
[itu-t y.3502]. 
9 security considerations 
the security framework from cloud computing [itu-t x.1601], analyses security threats and challenges in the 
cloud computing environment and describes security capabilities that could mi tigate these threats and 
address security challenges. the single cloud and multi-cloud resource management framework described in 
this recommendation is based on the interconnections within a single cloud service provider or between two 
or more cloud compu ting systems operated by different se rvice providers. thus, secure interconnection 
within and across the systems should be considered. protection of internal management system interfaces 
and information against unauthorized access, internally or by an external interconnected entity, should also 
be considered. exposed internal and external management interfaces should also be security protected. it is 
recommended that the applicable x, y and m series of itu -t security recommendations be taken into 
consideration, including access control, authentication, data confidentiality, communications security, data 
integrity, availability and privacy. 
  
