2 cloud computing management  
 
518  
8 metadata framework for naas service lifecycle management 
this clause aims to specify the metadata framework in naas service lifecycle management by reflecting the 
interoperability and integration of the naas service metadata, especially in the environments of devops and 
ci/cd. 
as described in [itu -t y.3522], met adata is used in the entire cloud service lifecycle management, from 
design, deployment, operation, to retirement stages. for naas service, closed-loop automation management 
is achieved by using data models of naas service, naas service operational policy,  and naas resource, as a 
linkage, in the four iterative stages of naas service lifecycle management. these four iterative stages can be 
categorized into design time, including design stage, and runtime execution time, including deployment 
stage, operation stage and retirement stage. 
figure 8-1 depicts the metadata framework for naas service lifecycle management. the metadata of naas 
service is created in design time, and then distributed to runtime execution time to be used in implementing 
a metadata -driven service deployment, operation and retirement. the feedback from runtime execution 
time to design time is to help identify the changes needed for the metadata. 
 
figure 8-1 – metadata framework for naas service lifecycle management 
8.1 metadata of naas service in design time 
models of naas service, naas service operational policy, and naas re source are created and developed in 
design time for making service s and resources available, using modelling tools provided by naas csp. the 
modelling process will not trigger any naas service instantiation in the runtime execution environment until 
the oss-naas receives a request to do so. 
the basic extendable model templates are defined and stored in service catalogue of oss-naas (naas service 
data model and na as service operational policy data model) and network controller (naas resource data 
model) during design time and can be configured and extended with additional parameters, parameter value 
ranges and validation rules according to naas csc's request. 
8.2 metadata of naas service in runtime execution time 
the modelled naas service is instantiated in runtime execution time and the specific naas service model and 
its naas service operational policy data model drive the corresponding codes. the active naas serv ice is 
continuously monitored by event listening . the event, requiring healing and/or scaling ba sed on real -time 
naas csc request s, is responded  to based on the associated condition pre -defined in naas service  
operational policy data model. 
based on the mo nitoring data collected during runtime execution time, the patterns governing usage, 
thresholds, events, policy effectiveness, etc., are discerned and the necessary feedback to effect modelling 
changes in design time is enabled. 

