 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   399 
• itu-t l.1420 : recommendation itu -t l.1420 presents the methodology to be followed if an 
organization intends to claim compliance with this recommendation when assessing its information 
and communication techno logy (ict) related energy consumption and/or greenhouse gas (ghg) 
emissions.  
 this recommendation can be used to assess energy consumption and ghg emissions generated 
over a defined period of time for the following purposes: for assessment of related impact from ict 
organizations or for assessment of impact from ict related activities within non-ict organizations. 
 uri: http://www.itu.int/itu-t/recommendations/rec.aspx?rec=11431  
• itu-t l.1430 : recommendation itu -t l.1430 is intended as a complement to iso standard iso 
14064-2 and the project protocol of the greenhouse gas protocol (ghg protocol). 
 this recommendation provides guidance for the application of a specific methodology to assess the 
environmental impact of information and communication technology (ict) greenhouse gas (ghg) 
and energy projects. this assessment methodology is specifically directed at quantifying and 
reporting ghg emission reductions, ghg removal enhancements, energy consumption reductions, 
and enhancement of energy generation and storage in ict ghg and energy projects. 
 an ict ghg project uses mainly ict goods, networks and services (gns) and is designed to reduce 
ghg emissions or increase ghg removals tha t are quantified by comparison between the 
environmental impact of a project activity and a corresponding baseline scenario. 
 an ict energy project uses mainly ict goods, networks and services to reduce energy consumption 
and improve energy efficiency. 
 from the ict perspective, this recommendation takes into account considerations based on existing 
project quantification guidelines and aims at covering ict ghg and energy project activities within 
both the ict and non-ict sectors. 
 this recommendation recog nizes the importance of project validation and verification for the 
credibility of project results but does not enforce the validation and verification procedures to be 
applied. it is expected that such procedures will be determined by the selected ghg pro gramme, 
national regulations, the project proponent's internal policy or the intended user's request. 
 uri: http://www.itu.int/itu-t/recommendations/rec.aspx?rec=11904  
• itu-t l.1 302: recommendation itu -t l.1302 contains the energy efficiency assessment 
methodology for data and telecommunication centres, test equipment accuracy requirements, 
assessment periods, assessment conditions and calculation methods. 
 for data and telecommunication centres, the document was divided into assessment methods for 
whole data centre /telecommunication centre efficiency and for partial data 
centre/telecommunication centre efficiency. 
 as the main energy consuming infrastructure in data centres/telecommunication centres are power 
feeding systems (power supply system) and cooling systems, both system energy efficiency 
measurement methodologies are covered in this recommendation. 
 it takes advantage of methodologies and best practices currently in use o r in development in 
networks and data centres/telecommunication centres. 
 this recommendation aims to reduce the negative impact of data and telecommunication centres 
through providing the methodologies of energy efficiency assessments. it is commonly reco gnized 
that data and telecommunication centres will have an ever -increasing impact on the environment 
in the future. the application of the assessment methods defined in this recommendation can help 
owners and managers to build future data centres/telecommunication centres, or improve existing 
ones, to operate in an environmentally responsible manner.  
 uri: http://www.itu.int/itu-t/recommendations/rec.aspx?rec=12630 
