intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  883 
5 conventions 
in this recommendation , the keywords "is reco mmended" indicate a requirement which is recommended 
but which is not absolutely required. thus this requirement need not be present to claim conformance. 
6 overview of cloud computing infrastructure capabilities type interoperability testing between 
the csc and csp 
cloud interoperability is the ability of a csc's system to interact with a cloud service, or the ability of one 
cloud service to interact with another cloud service, by exchanging information according to a prescribed 
method to obtain predictabl e results [iso/iec 19941]. the goal for cloud infrastructure capabilities type 
interoperability testing is to devise and implement testing methods and conduct a  basic set of functional 
tests for infrastructure capabilities type interoperability in a hybrid cloud environment using both private and 
public clouds [itu-t q.4040].  
the cloud computing infrastructure capabilities type interoperability testing can be divided into two parts ; 
the first part focuses on validating the infrastructure capabilities type functions provided by the csp to the 
csc, and the second part focuses on validating the interaction between csps in the inter-cloud environment. 
the scope of this recommendation is to validate the interaction between the csc and csp with infrastructure 
capabilities. 
infrastructure as a service (iaas) provides computing service functions, storage service functions and network 
service functions to the csc [itu-t y.3513]. all the functional requirements specified in [itu-t y.3513] should 
be validated. it is recommended to consider the following for  cloud computing infrastructure capabilities 
type interoperability testing: 
• computing service interoperability testing between the csc and csp 
– it is recommended to verify that the csp provides a computing service to the csc, including 
virtual machine ( vm) configuration, vm migration, vm snapshot, vm clone, vm time 
synchronization, vm reservation, vm image, vm template, vm scaling and vm backup. 
– it is recommended to verify that the csp provide s computing service related management 
functions to the csc, including life cycle management of the vm and physical machine, and vm 
and physical machine configuration inquiring. 
• storage service interoperability testing between the csc and csp 
– it is recommended to verify that the csp provides a storage service to the csc, including storage 
migration, storage snapshot, storage backup, storage resource reservation and i/o 
performance. 
– it is recommended to verify that the csp provides storage service related management 
functions to the csc, including storage life cycle management, storage utilization status 
inquiring. 
• network service interoperability testing between the csc and csp 
– it is recommended to verify that the csp provides network service to the csc, including network 
policy migration, network qos, network address translation (nat), network isolation, ip address 
allocation, ip address reservation, load balance, firewall and multipath routing. 
– it is recommended to verify that the csp  provides network service related management 
function to the csc, including network information inquiring. 
this recommendation describes cloud computing infrastructure capabilities type interoperability  testing 
from the functional perspective without distinguish five facets (transport, syntactic, semantic data, 
behavioural and policy) which were defines by [iso/iec 19941]. however, all the considerations described in 
[iso/iec 19941] are taking into account for bette r understanding of the cloud computing infrastructure 
capabilities type interoperability testing. 
