3 xaas  
 
694  
– oss4: this ref erence point covers interactions between the oss -ns and oss -nf. this  includes 
interactions related to network functions lifecycle management, network functio ns fault and 
performance management, network functions usage management and network functions inventory 
management. 
– oss5: this reference point covers interactions between the oss -ns and oss -ccs. t his includes 
interactions related to virtual resources life cycle management, virt ual resources fault and 
performance management, virtual resources usage man agement and virtual resources inventory 
management. 
– oss6: this reference point covers interactions between the oss -nf and oss -ccs. this  includes 
interactions related to virtual resources life cycle manageme nt, v irtual resources fault and  
performance management, virtual resources usage management and virtual resources invento ry 
management. 
the external reference points illustrated in figure a.1 are listed as follows: 
– oss-bss1: this reference point covers in teractions between bss functional components for  naas 
products (bss-naas products) and oss components for naas services (oss-naas). this includes for 
example naas service order interactions between the bss account management functional 
component and the oss-naas following a naas csc order for a naas product. 
– oss-rl1: this reference point covers interactions between the oss -nc and a network controller 
(e.g., a sdn controller). this includes interactions related to virtualized network connectivity life 
cycle management, fault and performance management, usage management and inventory 
management. in this cas e the oss -nc can be viewed as a set of sdn applications as per [itu-t 
y.3300], [itu-t y.3302] and the interactions being carried over the sdn application control interface 
(aci) reference point. 
– oss-rl2: this reference point covers interactions between the oss -naas and a vnf. this includes 
interactions related to the network functions ' configuration management and network functions ' 
fault and performance management from a naas service perspective. 
– oss-rl3: this reference point covers interactions between the oss -nf and a vnf. this includes 
interactions related to the network functions ' configuration management and network functions ' 
fault and performance management. 
– oss-rl4: this  reference point cov ers interactions between the oss -ccs with the naas cloud 
infrastructure domain. this includes interactions related to the specific assignment of virtual 
resources in response to resourc e allocation requests and the exchange of virtual resources state 
information. 
– oss-lg1: this reference point covers interactions between the oss -naas with a legacy oss system 
that manages legacy networks including pnfs. 
– oss-dev1: this reference point c overs interactions between the oss -naas with development 
functions for naas products and services. this include interactions related the distribution of 
developed naas services in order to make them available in the service catalogue functional 
component within the oss-naas. 
– bss-dev1: this reference point covers interaction s between the bss -naas products with 
development functions for naas products and services. this include s interactions related to the 
distribution of developed naas products in order to make them available in the product catalogue 
functional component within the bss-naas products. 
note 1 – in some cases, interaction of the oss -naas with a pnf may be realized through the oss -nc using either oss1 
reference point or os s2 plus oss3 reference points. in such case the oss -nc will typically interact with a network 
controller (e.g., a sdn controller or the nms/ems that controls and manages the pnf). 
note 2 – the oss-analytics box shown in figure a.1 is for further study. main objective of the oss-analytics is to support 
network analytics functionalities as described in clause 7.3. interactions of the oss-analytics with other oss components 
needs further study. 
  
