security 7 
 
  975 
8.2.2 shared environment 
cloud computing provides potential cost savings through massive resource sharing that occurs on a very large 
scale. this situation exposes many potentially vulnerable interfaces. for example, different cscs consume 
services from the same cloud simultaneously. as a result, the csc could potentially have unauthorized access 
to other tenants' virtual machines, network traffic, actual/residual data, etc. any such unauthori zed or 
malicious access to another csc's assets might compromise integrity, availability and confidentiality. 
for example, multiple virtual machines co -hosted on one physical server share both the central processing 
unit (cpu) and memory resources which are virtualized by the hypervisor. this example of challenges covers 
the failure of hypervisor isolation mechanisms, thus allowing unauthorized access to the memory or storage 
of other virtual machines. 
8.2.3 inconsistency and conflict of protection mechanisms 
due to the decentralized architecture of a cloud computing infrastructure, its protection mechanisms might 
be inconsistent among distributed security modules. for example, an access denied by one security module 
may be granted by another. this inconsistency might cause problems for an authorized user, and  might be 
exploited by an attacker, thereby compromising confidentiality, integrity and availability. 
8.2.4 jurisdictional conflict 
data in the cloud can be moved around between data centres, or even across  international borders. 
depending on the host country, data will be governed by different applicable jurisdictions. for example, some 
jurisdictions, such as the european union, require extensive protection of personally identifiable information 
(pii), whic h cannot usually be processed in places that do not provide a sufficient level of guaranteed 
protection. as a second example, some jurisdictions may treat communications as a service (caas) as an 
unregulated information service while others treat it as a r egulated telephony service. this  jurisdictional 
conflict can lead to legal complications that impact security, such as rules governing the lawful intercept of 
communications by law enforcement authorities, which may affect decisions on cryptography. 
8.2.5 evolutionary risks 
one advantage of cloud computing is to postpone some choices from the system  design phase to the 
execution phase. this means that some dependent software components of a system may be selected and 
implemented only when the function requ iring them has been executed. however, conventional risk 
assessment methodology can no longer match such a  dynamically evolving system . a system which has 
passed a security assessment during the design phase might have new vulnerabilities introduced during its 
lifetime due to changes in software components. 
8.2.6 bad migration and integration 
migrating to the cloud often implies moving large amounts of data and maj or configuration changes 
(e.g., network addressing). migration of a part of an ict system to an external csp might require substantial 
changes in the system design (e.g., network and security policies). a bad integration caused by incompatible 
interfaces or inconsistent policy enforcement might result in both functional and non-functional impacts. for 
example, virtual machines that run behind a firewall in a private data centre are accidently exposed to the 
open internet in the csp's cloud. 
8.2.7 business discontinuity 
cloud computing allocates resources and delivers them as a service. the whole cloud computing ecosystem 
is composed of many interdependent parts. the  discontinuity of any part ( such as a blackout , denial -of-
service or delay ) might affect cloud computing service availability connected with clause 8.1.5 " service 
unavailability", and then cause business discontinuity. 
8.2.8 cloud service partner lock-in 
the platform of the csp is built using software and hardware components from various suppliers. some 
components may include proprietary features or extensions that are useful to the csp. however, relying on 
these proprietary features limits the csp's ability to migrate to another component supplier. 
