intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  927 
snia works on cloud computing interface related aspects of the cci. 
cdmi standard defines an interoperable format for moving data and associated metadata between cloud 
providers interoperability. cdmi is an http/restful protocol with tls support for securing the data, 
metadata and communications. 
 
figure 5-5 – sajacc use case: copy data objects into a cloud (reference: snia, nist) 
table 5-12 – snia documents and work items related to cci 
reference name/title status 
iso 17826:2012 cloud data management interface v1.0.2 published 
5.1.13 tm forum 
tm forum  (formerly telemanagement forum)  is the world' s leading industry association focused on 
improving business effectiveness for service providers and their suppliers, including the production of best 
practices and standards. 
tm forum works on sla management related aspects of cci. 
tm forum published sla related documents such as sla management handbook [tmf gb917], cloud sla 
application note [tmf gb963] and enterprise-grade external compute iaas requirements [tmf tr174]. 
sla management handbook [tmf gb917] provides a full set of definitions, rules and methodology for the 
specification, deployment and management of slas, as well as useful tools and best practices, for use by 
both customers and service providers. 
cloud sla application note [tmf gb963] is intended for enterprise csps desiring to offer a commercially 
credible sla based on eclc "enterprise-grade external compute iaas v1.0", and for an enterprise customer 
seeking enterprise-grade slas. 
enterprise-grade external compute iaas requirements  [tmf tr174 ] describes the requirements for 
enterprise-grade external compute iaas from the perspective of the enterprise consumer. sla clarity and 
cross-service provider commonality of service level definitions are specified in this document as one of the 
key requirements of enterprise-grade iaas. 
enabling end-to-end cloud sla management [tmf tr178] recommends a set of business considerations and 
architecture design principles that are required to support end-to-end cloud sla management with the aim 
to facilitate discussion regarding sla consistency across cloud deployment models and services models. 
quick start pack for cloud: trouble to resolve [tmf gb960] focuses on the detailed specification and delivery 
of a set of process flows, defined in business process management notation (bpmn), that utilize all currently 
defined business process framework level 3 process elements within project scope. 

