xaas 3 
 
     695 
annex b 
 
functional components on mapping between physical and virtualized networks 
(this annex forms an integral part of this recommendation.) 
this annex describes the functional components on mapping between physical and virtualized networks. 
note – a virtualized network can be seen as a specific realization of a ns whose resources are provided on top of 
physical resources that constitute a physical network. 
in order to realize the functionality for mapping between physical and virtualized networks (refer to 
clauses 7.7.1 and i.4), specialized mapping functional components are necessary. 
the resource abstraction and control functional component [itu-t y.3502] is used by naas csps to: 
– provide access to the physical computing resources through software abstraction; 
– ensure efficient, secure, and reliable usage of the underlying infrastructure; 
– enable a naas csp to offer qualities such as rapid elasticity, re source pooling and on-demand self-
service. 
the resource abstraction and control  functional component can include software elements such as 
hypervisors, virtual machines, virtual data storage, and time-sharing. 
the physical resources functional component [itu-t y.3502] includes hardware resources, such as computer, 
networks (routers, firewall, switches, network links and network connectors), storage components and other 
physical computing infrastructure elements. 
the resource abstraction and control functional component  and the physical resources functional 
component can be instantiated to realise the functionality described in clause 7.7.1, as shown in figure b.1. 
 
figure b.1 – functional components on mapping between  
physical and virtualized networks 
b.1 physical network 
physical network functional component provides physical agents of physical network elements, such as 
physical nodes, ports, switches and links. 
note – physical agents are the representations of actual physical network nodes, ports, switch es, links, etc. 

