cloud computing management 2 
 
  515 
3.1.4 cloud service provider [b-itu-t y.3500]: party which makes cloud services available. 
3.1.5 network as a service (naas) [b-itu-t y.3500]: cloud service category in which the capability 
provided to the cloud service customer is transport connectivity and related network capabilities. 
3.1.6 network function [itu-t y.3515]: a function of a network infrastructure whose external interfaces 
and functional behaviour are well specified. 
note – examples of network functions include network switches and network routers. 
3.1.7 network service [itu-t y.3515]: a collection of network functions with a well specified behaviour. 
note – examples of network services include content delivery networks (cdns) and ip multimedia subsystem (ims).  
3.1.8 software-defined networking  [b-itu-t y.3300]:  a set of techniques that enables to directly 
program, orchestrate, control and manage network resources, which facilitates the design, delivery and 
operation of network services in a dynamic and scalable manner. 
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation 
this recommendation defines the following terms: 
3.2.1 naas service operational policy administration point (npap): an entity in the network as a service 
(naas) service operational policy framework that administrates the policies. 
3.2.2 naas service operational policy decision point (npdp): an entity in the network as a service (naas) 
service operational policy framework that makes authorization decisions and distributions of the policies. 
3.2.3 naas service operational policy enforcement point (npep) : an entity in the network as a service 
(naas) service operational policy framework that implements the decisions of npdp (3.2.2). 
3.2.4 naas service operational poli cy information point (npip) : an entity in the network as a service 
(naas) service operational policy framework that stores the policies. 
4 abbreviations and acronyms 
this recommendation uses the following abbreviations and acronyms: 
ci  continuous integration 
cd  continuous delivery 
cdn  content delivery network 
ce  customer edge 
csc   cloud service customer 
csp   cloud service provider 
devops  development and operations 
eca  event, condition and action 
ims  ip multimedia subsystem 
naas  network as a service 
nf   network function 
npap  naas service operational policy administration point 
npdp  naas service operational policy decision point 
npep  naas service operational policy enforcement point 
npip  naas service operational policy information point 
ns  network service 
