2 cloud computing management  
 
466  
with the convergence of information technology (it) and communications technology (ct) industries, cloud 
computing is being adopted in telecommunication infrastructures. telecom munication operators deliver 
cloud services, and also apply cloud computing technologies for the optimization of their telecommunication 
service platforms and telecommunication support systems. 
[itu-t m.3070] has defined a service management interface (smi) -based common model for end-to-end 
(e2e) cloud computing management, which is described in figure 6 -1. in this model, a cloud -aware 
telecommunication management system can manage cloud -based fa cilities through the management 
interface "i1" which can correspond to a set of smis. 
 
figure 6-1 – common model for e2e cloud computing management, with  
telecommunication operator acting as a csp (after [itu-t m.3070]) 
a cloud-aware telecommunication management system can manage both telecommunication services and 
cloud services in a consistent manner. although the management layering could be the same as the 
traditional telecommunication management layering, with the introduction of cloud computing, there are 
still new requirements for cloud -aware telecommunication management. this recommendation addresses 
the requirements of comprehensive service management in a cloud-aware telecommunication management 
system. 
the relationship betwee n cloud servi ce management and service management in a cloud-aware 
telecommunication management system is also illustrated in figure 6 -1. the cloud service management is 
located in business support system(bss)/operations support system (oss) (marked by the  red rectangle in 
figure 6-1) which belongs to the cloud service provider (csp), and the service management in the cloud -
aware telecommunication management system (marked by the yellow rectangle in figure 6-1) which belongs 
to telecommunication operator. as an important aspect of cloud service management, cloud service lifecycle 
management (see [itu-t y.3522]) is also located in bss/oss which belongs to csp. 
7 general requirements for service management in cloud-aware telecommunication management 
system 
as a cloud -aware telecommunication management system, the difference with a traditional 
telecommunication management system is it could support comprehensive management for 
telecommunication services, cloud services and tc-hybrid services which consist of both telecommunication 
and cloud service components. 

