intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  899 
table ii.18 – test case: storage resource reservation 
storage resource reservation test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc reserves available storage resource (e.g., storage space and lun)  
for the vm. 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.2.5 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc configures storage reservation for vm a, which has 
guaranteed minimum allocation of storage space.  
 
2 stimulus the csc runs an application to perform heavy consumption 
of storage usage on vms hosting in the same host except for 
vm a. the total consumption of storage is close to the 
amount of the storage available for the host. 
 
3 stimulus the csc performs heavy consumption of storage usage on 
vm a. 
 
4 check vm a can get the storage resource.  
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
ii.2.5 test case: i/o performance 
table ii.19 shows the test case for i/o performance. 
table ii.19 – test case: i/o performance 
i/o performance test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc constrains i/o traffic of a particular vm with a specified level. 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.2.4 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc runs an application to perform heavy reading and 
writing of storage on vm a. it records the actual iops 
obtained by vm a. 
 
2 stimulus the csc configures i/o performance limitation for vm a. the 
iops limit configured is significantly lower than the iops 
obtained in step 1. 
 
3 stimulus the csc runs an application to perform heavy reading and 
writing on vm a. 
 
4 check the actual iops obtained by vm a does not exceed the 
limitation. 
 
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
ii.2.6 test case: storage life cycle management 
table ii.20 shows the test case for storage life cycle management. 
  
