 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   159 
table i.5 – a use case for registration of cloud services at csp side 
title a use case for registration and deregistration of cloud services at csp side. 
description a csp accesses a login page in the csb workspace using previously registered ids and 
passwords. 
the csp registers access information of the cloud services that will be listed in the product 
catalogue. the access information of the cloud services would be connection id, connection 
password, endpoint url and location. 
then, the csp defines the unit of cloud service by enrolling the information of its cloud services. 
the unit of cloud service en compasses its name, specification of virtual machine, images 
including a particular os, agent software and related applications. the csp can defines various 
types of unit of cloud services in the workspace. for example, the specification of virtual 
machine can varies depending on the number of virtual central processing unit (cpu), size of 
random access memory and size of storage. the images also can be diverse in accordance with 
os types, os version and presence of specific applications. on each constructe d unit of cloud 
services, the csp registers the billing information and sla. after registering cloud services, the 
csp asks a csn: cloud service broker to add the cloud services into product catalogues in the 
workspace in the csc side. the csn: cloud servi ce broker validates each sla and security 
aspects of the cloud services and, if there is no problem, performs the confirmation of the 
registration. 
roles/sub-roles csp, csn: cloud service broker 
figure 
 
pre-conditions 
(optional) 
the csp is a member of the csn: cloud service broker and has an account for accessing csb 
workspace.  
post-conditions 
(optional) 
the csc can select cloud services on product catalogue.  
derived 
requirements 
– registration of cloud service (see clause 7.2) 
– user interface for csps (see clause 7.1) 
 

