1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
156  
table i.3 – a general use case of cloud service integration 
title a general use case of cloud service integration. 
description the csn: cloud service broker collects multiple cloud services  provided by different csps, 
orchestrates the multiple cloud services and provides value-added cloud services to cscs  
through the csn: cloud service broker's cloud product catalogue.  
the csps register cloud services to the csn: cloud service broker  in product catalogue, which 
is the unique one provided to the csc by the csn: cloud service broker  with all csps cloud 
services. the synchronization of the product catalogue can be triggered by the registered csps 
or the csn: cloud service broker itself in case of modification in the cloud services.  
the csn: cloud service broker integrates the cloud services from csps by an integration logic 
and provides the value-added services in the product catalogue. 
note – the integration logic describes interactions among the cloud services and specifies the 
method to enable the interactions. 
after the csc selects and orders the integrated cloud service from the product catalogue, the 
csn: cloud service broker makes requests for service creation to csps f or all cloud services 
which are subservices of integrated cloud service. after all cloud services are created, the csn: 
cloud service broker enables interactions among cloud services by utilizing the integration 
logic. once the integration procedure has be en finished, the csn: cloud service broker sends 
service access information to the csc so that the csc can accesses to the integrated cloud 
services. 
the csn: cloud service broker manages controls and status of the integrated cloud service and 
each subservice is managed simultaneously. 
the c loud services on multiple csps  are interacted with each other based on the service 
integration logic. 
all monitor information can be collected by the csn: cloud service broker to provide the csc 
with an overall view of cloud services together. the unified charges can be proved to the csc 
by the csn: cloud service broker. 
roles/sub-roles csp, csn: cloud service broker, csc 
figure 
 
pre-conditions 
(optional) 
the csn: cloud service broker  and multiple csps achieve a cooperation agreement and the 
csn: cloud service broker can sell these csps' cloud services. 
the csn: cloud service broker adapts the different cloud apis of multiple csps. 
post-conditions 
(optional) 
the cscs can build application systems upon integrated cloud environment upon multiple csps 
based on the brokerage capabilities provided by the csn: cloud service broker. 

