security 7 
 
  1059 
9.4.5 access control to program source code 
control 9.4.5 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
10 cryptography 
10.1 cryptographic controls 
the objective specified in clause 10.1 of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
10.1.1 policy on the use of cryptographic controls 
control 10.1.1 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
the cloud service customer should implement 
cryptographic controls for its use of cloud services if 
justified by the risk analysis. the controls should be of 
sufficient strength to mitigate the identified risks, 
whether those controls are supplied by the cloud service 
customer or by the cloud service provider. 
when the cloud service provider offers cryptography, 
the cloud service customer should review any 
information supplied by the cloud service provider to 
confirm whether the cryptographic capabilities: 
– meet the cloud service customer's policy 
requirements; 
– are compatible with any other cryptographic 
protection used by the cloud service customer; 
– apply to data at rest and in transit to, from and 
within the cloud service. 
the cloud service provider should provide information 
to the cloud service customer regarding the 
circumstances in which it uses cryptography to protect 
the information it processes. the cloud service provider 
should also provide information to the cloud service 
customer about any capabilities it provides that can 
assist the cloud service customer in applying its own 
cryptographic protection. 
other information for cloud services 
in some jurisdictions, it might be required to apply cryptography to protect particular kinds of information, 
such as health data, resident registration numbers, passport numbers and driver's licence numbers. 
10.1.2 key management 
control 10.1.2 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
the cloud service customer should identify the 
cryptographic keys for each cloud service, and 
implement procedures for key management. 
where the cloud service provides key management 
functionality for use by the cloud service customer, the 
cloud service customer should request the following 
information on the procedures used to manage keys 
related to the cloud service: 
– type of keys; 
(no additional implementation guidance) 
