1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
296  
9.6 cloud services switchover and switchback  
the cloud services switchover and switchback capability deals with the switchover of the csc's end-user 
access to cloud services from the primary csp to a peer csp to which the services may be provided in order 
to cope with degradation in service performance  or a serious problem. it also deals with the switchback to 
the primary csp when it is able to provide the services again. it should be noted that the reasons for switch-
over ranges from a load distribution between csps, in which the primary csp role is maintained as it is, to a 
serious problem, in which the primary csp role is delegated to the peer csp. t he capability differences to 
reflect those reasons need further study. 
the cloud service switchover and switchback capability is recommended to:  
– allow switching over csc's end -user access to a peer csp (acting as primary csp) without manual 
operation from the csc, in order to allow the csc's end user to use services in a similar manner to 
the way they did before the access was switchover; 
– allow switching back the csc's end-user access to the primary csp when this csp has recovered from 
the reasons that led to the switchover (e.g., a disaster or load distribution between peer csps is no 
longer needed). 
9.7 resource release 
the resource release capability deals with the release by a csp of the peer csps' (reserved and/or used) 
resources after determining that these resources are no longer needed, e.g., based on monitoring the results 
such as disaster recovery has been completed or load has been reduced. 
the resource release capability is recommended to: 
– allow releasing by the csp of resources reserved, activated and/or set up in the peer csps;  
– allow updating the peer csp's resource configuration information; 
– allow erasing and/or transferring back cloud application data received during the resource 
reservation. 
9.8 csc information exchange 
the csc information exchange capability deals with exchanging csc profiles and associated information 
between a primary csp and the secondary csps. the information associated with a csc is initially maintained 
by the primary csp. when the primary csp reque sts that the secondary csps should provide additional 
resources and run applications over the secondary csp resources, the secondary csps may need to perform 
customer management by inheriting the csc profiles and associated information given by the primary  csp. 
activation of csc information exchange needs prior agreement of the csc.  
the csc information exchange capability is required to: 
– be activated only with the prior agreement of the csc;  
– be able to manage csc profiles and associated information. 
the csc information exchange capability is recommended to:  
– be able to exchange csc profiles and associated information among multiple csps according to a 
pre-determined protocol and format, with the condition that the csc is informed of and agrees to 
the exchange.  
9.9 primary csp role delegation 
the primary csp role delegation capability deals with transferring the primary csp role to one of the 
secondary csps, e.g.,  in the event of a serious problem caused by natural disasters or permanent service 
termination occurring at the current primary csp. in preparation for the serious problem or permanent 
service termination at the primary csp, all management information associated with the primary csp is 
shared with the secondary csps, while the absolute contro llability of the information, i.e.,  permission to 
update the information, is still held by the primary csp. when the serious problem or service termination 
