 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   77 
the audit itself depends upon data and evidence being available, relating to the usage, environment, 
availability and performance of services and associated resources. such data and evidence includes records 
and logs of activities and conditions of the operational environments of all parties of the governing 
agreements. these records and logs need to be collected and maintained in a secure manner. 
8.5.3 availability 
availability is the property of being accessible and usable upon demand by an authorized entity. the 
"authorized entity" is typically a cloud service customer. 
8.5.4 governance 
governance is the system by which the provision and use of cloud services are directed and controlled. 
the term internal cloud governance is used for the application of design-time and run-time policies to ensure 
that cloud computing based solutions are designed and implemented, and cloud computing based services 
are delivered according to specified expectations. these expectations can cover any or all of the cross-cutting 
aspects. 
the individual governance practices used by cloud service customers and cloud service providers exist on a 
continuum from simple to sophisticated and are encapsulated within their role. it is the responsibility of each 
role to implement governance according to their needs. cloud governance is cited as a cross -cutting aspect 
because of the requirement for transparency and the need to rationalize governance practices with slas and 
other contractual elements of the cloud service customer to cloud service provider relationship. 
the term external cloud governance is used for some form of agreement between the cloud service customer 
and the cloud service provi der concerning the use of cloud services by the cloud service customer . the 
agreement can make reference to a service level agreement  which provides detailed information about 
functional and non-functional aspects of the services. 
8.5.5 interoperability 
interoperability in the context of cloud computing includes the ability of a cloud service customer to interact 
with a cloud service and exchange information according to a prescribed method and obtain predictable 
results. typically, interoperability implies that the cloud service  operates according to an agreed 
specification, one that is possibly standardized. the cloud service custom er should be able to use widely 
available ict facilities in-house when interacting with cloud services, avoiding the need to use proprietary or 
highly specialized software. 
interoperability also includes the ability for one cloud service  to work with other  cloud services , either 
through a csp:inter-cloud provider relationship, or where a cloud service customer uses multiple different 
cloud services in some form of composition to achieve their business goals. 
interoperability stretches beyond the cloud services themselves and also includes the interaction of the 
cloud service customer with the cloud service management facilities of the cloud service provider. ideally, 
the cloud service customer  should have a consistent and interoperable interface to the cloud service 
management functionality and be able to interact with two or more cloud service providers without needing 
to deal with each provider in a specialized way. 
standards are implemented in order to support interoperability between components or to supp ort the 
portability of data or of program components. the implementations should support the evolution of the 
standards used, both from an earlier version of a standard to a later version, or from one standard to a 
different one, while minimizing disruptive changes. 
8.5.6 maintenance and versioning 
a significant item relating to governance is the maintenance of services and underlying resources. 
maintenance can take place for a variety of reasons, including the need to fix faults and also the need to 
upgrade or extend facilities for business reasons. maintenance actions can have the effect of changing the 
behaviour of cloud services  – in particular changes can affect how a service operates when used by a 
customer. 
