 
   iii 
introduction 
as stated in recommendation itu -t y.3500, the 
cloud computing is a paradigm for enabling 
network access to a scalable and elastic pool of 
shareable physical or virtual resources with on -
demand self -service provisioning and 
administration. users have quick access to such 
resources as for example hardwa re and software 
platforms or applications in the context of the 
different cloud deployment models as public, 
private and hybrid. furthermore, investments in 
own hardware and software are reduced, in 
particular, when considering their rapid changes 
because of high pace of innovations. aside from 
cost savings and promoting innovation, the 
integration of cloud computing changes 
architecture and management of 
telecommunication networks. cloud computing is 
considered to be one of the key capabilities of 
currently deploying imt2020/ 5g networks. 
itu-t has been developing recommendations on 
cloud computing since 2011. 
given that cloud computing is based on the 
concurrence of a variety of resources of 
telecommunication networks and it 
infrastructure, itu -t standards  enabling 
consistent end -to-end, multi -cloud management 
and monitoring of services exposed by and across 
different service providers’ domains and 
technologies have been and are still published. 
itu-t study group 13 (sg13) has published to this 
day 24 itu -t standards related to cloud 
computing. in addition, other 14 cloud computing 
standards have been published by other itu -t 
study groups. such standards, which have to 
some extend been jointly developed with other 
sdo’s such as iso/iec jtc 1/sc 38/wg 3, focu s in 
detail on, inter alia, requirements and functional 
architectures of the cloud computing ecosystem, 
covering inter - and intra -cloud computing and 
technologies supporting xaas (x as a service). this 
work includes infrastructure and networking 
aspects of  cloud computing models, as well as 
deployment considerations and requirements for 
interoperability and data portability. 
furthermore, studies orient toward cloud service 
and infrastructure management as well as the 
management of composite cloud  services a nd 
components that use a variety of telecom and it 
infrastructure resources.  
 
 
 
this flipbook offers a detailed overview on today’s 
itu-t deliveries related to cloud computing. it 
aims to give an introduction and guidance for the 
understanding of cloud co mputing concepts, eco 
system and principles. 
 
1 november 2019  
 
 
 
dr leo lehmann, chairman for itu -t study 
group 13 "future networks, with focus on 
imt-2020, cloud computing and trusted network 
infrastructures" 
 
 

