4 video processing and storage  
 
782  
figure 7-4 shows the procedural flows of video file uploading from the nvr to the cloud storage system: 
(1) the cu initiates a video file uploading plan request and sends this request to the scu. 
(2) the scu forwards this uploading plan request to the cmu. 
(3) the cmu authenticates the uploading access permission and then sends this uploading plan request 
to the csmu. 
(4) the csmu authenticates the uploading access permission and then sends this uploading plan 
request to the csau. 
(5) the csau returns a response to the csmu when it is ready for this video file uploading plan. 
(6) the csmu returns the csau information to the cmu. 
(7) the cmu sends a response to the scu. 
(8) the scu forwards this response to the cu. 
(9) when the cu receives the csau information, it sends the video file uploading request to the csau. 
(10) when the csau receives the uploading request, it sends a request to the scu for the data source 
address. 
(11) the scu forwards the request to the mdu. 
(12) the mdu returns the file address to the scu. 
(13) the scu transfers the file address to the csau. 
(14) after receiving the file address, the csau requests the mdu to start video file uploading from the 
nvr. 
(15) the mdu sends a request to the nvr for obtaining the video files. 
(16) the nvr creates a video transmission channel with the mdu and sends the video files to the mdu. 
(17) then mdu transfers the video files to the csau. 
(18) the csau transfers the video files to the csdu to store them in the cloud data nodes. 
(19) when the storage plan is completed, the cu sends a stop request to the csau. 
(20) the csau transfers this stop-media request to the mdu. 
(21) then mdu returns a response to the csau. 
(22) the csau requests the scu to disconnect. 
(23) the scu returns a response to end this video file uploading. 
7.4.3 image storage 
the network cameras continuously capture images . when a user wants to store these images directly into 
the cloud storage system, the cu initiates a request to the scu to start the image storage. 
