1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
6  
1 scope 
this recommendation | international standard provides an overview of cloud computing along with a set of 
terms and definitions. it is a terminology foundation for cloud computing standards. 
this recommendation | international standard is applicable to all types of organizations (e.g., commercial 
enterprises, government agencies, not-for-profit organizations). 
2 normative references 
the following recommendations and international standards contain provisions which, through reference in 
this text, constitute provisions of this recommendation | international standard. at the time of publication, 
the editions indicated were valid. all recommendations and standards are subject to revision, and parties to 
agreements based on this recommendation | international standard are encouraged to investigate the 
possibility of applying the most recent edition of the recommendations and standards listed below. 
members of iec and iso maintain registers of currently va lid international standards. the 
telecommunication standardization bureau of the itu maintains a list of currently valid itu -t 
recommendations. 
2.1 identical recommendations | international standards 
none. 
2.2 paired recommendations | international standards 
none. 
2.3 additional references 
none. 
3 definitions 
3.1 terms defined elsewhere 
this recommendation | international standard uses the following terms defined elsewhere. 
the following terms are defined in iso/iec 27000: 
3.1.1 availability: property of being accessible and usable upon demand by an authorized entity. 
3.1.2 confidentiality: property that information is not made available or disclosed to unauthorized 
individuals, entities, or processes 
3.1.3 information security: preservation of confidentiality (3.1.2), integrity (3.1.4) and availability (3.1.1) 
of information. 
note – in addition, other properties, such as authenticity, accountability, non-repudiation, and reliability can also be involved. 
3.1.4 integrity: property of accuracy and completeness. 
the following term is defined in rec. itu-t y .101: 
3.1.5 interoperability: the ability of two or more systems or applications to exchange information and to 
mutually use the information that has been exchanged. 
the following term is defined in iso/iec 27729: 
3.1.6 party: natural person or legal person, whether or not incorporated, or a group of either. 
