5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
896  
table ii.12 – test case: physical machine life cycle management 
physical machine life cycle management test description 
7 stimulus the csc wakes up the physical machine which is in hibernate 
state. 
 
8 check the state of the physical machine is power on.  
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
ii.1.13 test case: vm configuration inquiring 
table ii.13 shows the test case for vm configuration inquiring. 
table ii.13 – test case: vm configuration inquiring 
vm configuration inquiring test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc inquires vm configuration with cpu number, memory allocated, 
nic number, ip address allocated. 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.1.2 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc queries the cpu number of the vm.  
2 check the csc receives the information of a particular vm's cpu 
number that is consistent with the number of the cpu 
allocated for the vm. 
 
3 stimulus the csc queries memory size of the vm from the csp.  
4 check the csc receives the information of a particular vm's 
memory size that is consistent with the size of memory 
allocated for the vm. 
 
5 stimulus the csc queries the nic number of the vm from the csp.  
6 check the csc receives the information of a particular vm's nic 
number that is consistent with the number of the nic 
allocated for the vm. 
 
7 stimulus the csc queries the ip address of the vm from the csp.  
8 check the csc receives the information of a particular vm's ip 
address that is consistent with the ip address allocated for 
the vm. 
 
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
ii.1.14 test case: physical machine configuration inquiring 
table ii.14 shows the test case for physical machine status inquiring. 
table ii.14 – test case: physical machine status inquiring 
physical machine configuration inquiring test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc inquires physical machine configuration with the number of cpu 
cores, memory size, disk size and nic number. 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.1.1 
