security 7 
 
  1037 
8.11 internal security audit 
due to the wide range of security audit, this recommendation only focuses on the internal security audit 
from the perspective of the operational security . a reliable and objective security audit can help to ensure 
that operational risk management activitie s have been thoroughly tested and reviewed, to enhance the 
transparency of cloud computing services, and even to meet the regulatory requirements. 
8.11.1 requisites of security audit 
to ensure the objectivity and reliability of the security audit, csps and  cscs should negotiate to reach an 
agreement on the use of a common it control and certification assurance framework, and the means how to 
collect, store, and share the audit trail (such as system logs, activity reports, system configurations). 
according to the security clause of the sla between csps and cscs, the security audit should be planned and 
targeted to satisfy some requisites: 
1) team and function: firstly, the audit team members should include senior management, and staff 
from different business departments (administrative, and technical) to ensure fairness and 
scheduling of resource during the audit process. secondly, the audit objective should include 
verifying the security management architecture of csps and/or cscs, and validating the 
effectiveness and correctness of risk control measures. thirdly, the audit process should be 
controlled by the audit team and should comply with the standardized workflow. finally, the security 
audit should be carried out repeatedly in a proper period. 
2) requisites for the audit process: firstly, and based on the above, audit activities should be fully 
recorded and well planned to avoid interrupting csps' or cscs' business process. secondly, the scope 
of the audit objectives and required resources should be clearl y defined and guaranteed for their 
availability. lastly, all the audit procedures and requirements should be documented as well as the 
audit team members' responsibilities. 
3) protection of audit tools: the use of audit tools should be restricted and stand ardized to avoid the 
misuse of cloud computing resources. 
8.11.2 specific audit requirements 
compared with the security audit procedures in the traditional information systems, the audit team members 
are especially required to be familiar with the challenges brought by virtualization and other cloud computing 
technologies. at the same time, the audit category need to expand from traditional security logs to the 
operation and maintenance of data, business data, and even the storage location of the user data. the audit 
items include but are not limited to: 
1) virtualization security audit: the main audit requirements include the means of encryption and 
integrity check for virtual image files, isolation and reinforcement of different virtual machines, 
access control and migration of virtual machines, monitoring of virtual machines processes, and 
vulnerability inspection in virtual machines, inner traffic monitoring and measures over the 
virtualized network. 
2) cloud platform architecture and components security audit: it is crucial to audit the rationality and 
effectiveness of the countermeasures including the policy of security domain division, the security 
redundancy of network architecture and core components, the vulnerability scanning and security 
reinforcement, the packaging and distribution of patches, and the configurations of the intrusion 
prevention system  (ips)/intrusion detection system  (ids), firewalls and virtualization security 
devices. 
3) operation, maintenance and business behaviour audit: audit r equirements mainly focus on 
operation and maintenance records, business access logs, access to data, and business behaviour 
inspection. 
4) identity and access management (iam) and access control audit: the audit requirements are critical 
to ensure the correct operation in the cloud computing environment, which include the design and 
deployment of multifactor authentication, access control, single sign -on (sso), segregation of 
duties, and management of privileged users. 
