7 security  
 
1034 
configuration management security involves the following measures: 
1) configuration management auditing 
 configuration management auditing is to ensure that the configuration alteration and release 
requirements have b een implemented effectively  and efficiently . it can help csps verify the 
correctness, consistency, completeness, validity, and traceability of each configuration item. 
configuration management auditing should be executed periodically during the daily operation. 
 all logs of user access, modification, archive and retrieval should be recorded and archived for online 
or offline audit. 
 furthermore, the report of configuration management auditing related to cscs or their services 
should be appropriately visible to cscs, to enable cscs to supervise the security measures and the 
effectiveness of csps. 
2) configuration management monitoring 
 csps should monitor all the alternation s and other operation s of configuration files of an entire 
cloud computing environment, to prevent non-authorized access, leakage, illegal modification and 
mis-configuration. 
3) configuration management database protecting 
 csps should do precise maintenance and management  of the configuration management database, 
such as role-based authority assignment, garbage removal, regular auditing, periodical backup, etc. 
8.9 emergency response plans 
it is critical to ensure that the cloud computing systems are able to be operated effectively by csps without 
excessive interruption following a security incident. an emergency response plan supports this requirement 
by establishing an effective programme, procedures, and technical measures. 
in order to reduce the impact of security incidents on the cloud computing platforms and services, csps' 
emergency response plan should provide a clear guidance for operators and strike a balance between the 
level of detail and degree of flexibility. the development and management of an emergency response plan is 
a cycle of continuous improvement process consisting of three phases: development phase, testing and 
implementation phase, and maintenance phase. 
8.9.1 development phase 
above all, the quantitativ e and qualitative analysis methods should be adopted to make a comprehensive 
risk assessment and business impact analysis (bia) of the cloud computing systems. after that, the key 
features and components of the system could be obtained, as well as the impa ct of different security 
incidents. on this basis, according to the security clause of sla between csps and cscs, the regulatory 
requirements, and the recovery target of the emergency response can be formulated such as the scope of 
rto and rpo. furthermore , the characters of cloud service and classification of incidents should also be 
considered while developing an emergency response plan. 
the emergency response plan includes: 
1) notification: a notification procedure should be developed to notify the response team, 
management staff and related cscs once a security incident occurs. 
2) classification and grading of security events: the security assessment of a security incident should 
be implemented by the emergency response team to determine its category and grade. 
3) launching: after the classification and grading of the security events, it is urgent for csps and cscs 
to activate the correspondingly pre-established response programme. 
4) action: after activating the response programme, countermeasures s hould be launched 
immediately to suppress the impact of security incidents. additionally, recovery operations should 
be taken right after the incidents are effectively controlled. 
5) post-disposal: after the emergency action, it is important to make a conc lusion of the latest 
emergency response, which includes actions to analyse and summarize the reasons for the incident, 
take the assessment of the loss and make the evaluation of the effectiveness and efficiency of the 
emergency response plan. 
