5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
802  
trusted inter -cloud resiliency is a set of technical p rocedures (rely on shifting control and security 
mechanisms) to: 
– monitor csc or csp's environment and collect relevant data; 
– analyse monitored data;  
– predict faults and;  
– mitigate or restore the cloud service parameters after service failure (related to certain equipment 
or software functionality, laws and regulations, local policies, service contracts, etc.) and availability 
(related to technical systems functionality). 
complementary to trusted inter-cloud resiliency is the reliability of trusted inter-cloud. this means the ability 
of the trusted inter -cloud environment to perform and maintain under stated conditions as required for a 
specified period of time.  
6.4 security and confidentiality of trusted inter-cloud 
the security and confidentiality of trusted inter -cloud is the main challenge of integrating multiple csp 
platforms. this is necessary to provide self -service, self-managed and end -to-end security services for the 
csc, and for the csp to guarantee a level of confidentiality, integrity, as  well as availability of services and 
resources hosted on csp's cloud computing environments. to establish and specify trust between different 
cloud computing environments as well as trust between csc and csps, a dedicated security and 
confidentiality terminology, together with a master service agreement (msa) is needed.  
the security and confidentiality of trusted inter-cloud is based on distributed cloud management. it enables 
the primary csp  to provide end -to-end dynamic deployment, configuration and uni fied control of security 
and confidentiality of cloud services across multiple csps. in implementation, distributed cloud management 
supported trust can be realised by combining specialised protocol design with smart interaction with the 
underlying cloud network fabric (e.g., using software-defined networking (sdn) traffic engineering and cloud-
tailored smart queue management).  
to increase security and confidentiality of trusted inter -cloud computing, it is necessary to define a 
terminology (language) to a nnotate (or tag) workloads and data with security requirements (such as 
permissible storage locations). these annotations will be processed by the system during scheduling and 
migration to ensure that workload constraints are maintained. additionally, annotation of workloads allows 
the use of appropriate network data plane mechanisms (e.g., sdn) for strong security protection and traffic 
isolation in order to ensure that the above constraints are reached when workloads are practically placed, 
executed (data accessed and stored) and migrated. such annotation of workloads and data sets might be 
based on standards for data categorisation. 
the security and confidentiality of trusted inter -cloud is realized based on a two dimensional  (vertical and 
horizontal) model as follows. the vertical axis is based on the layers of the cloud computing reference 
architecture [itu-t y.3502]: 
– in the higher layers focussed on user -centric security and confidentiality through a unified 
distribution layer for cloud resources (independently from their type and from underlying csp), such 
as user identity management, authentication and authorization; 
– in the lower layers focused on provider -independent control, security and confidentiality over the 
whole distributed inter-cloud infrastructure, such as disk and network encryption. 
the horizontal axis is based on the interconnection of csps based on the inter -cloud framework 
[itu-t y.3511]. 
consequently, security and confidentiality of trusted inter -cloud are based on satisfying both horizontal 
(cross-provider) and vertical (cross-layer) dimensions.  
