1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
400  
• itu-t l.1320 : recommendation itu -t l.1320 contains the general definition of metrics, tes t 
procedures, methodologies and measurement profiles required to assess the energy efficiency of 
power and cooling equipment for telecommunication and data centres. more detailed 
measurement procedures and specifications can be developed in future related itu-t 
recommendations.  
 metrics and measurement methods are defined for power equipment, alternating current (ac) 
power feeding equipment (such as ac uninterruptible power supply (ups), direct current (dc/ac) 
inverters), dc power feeding equipment (such a s ac/dc rectifiers, dc/dc converters), solar 
equipment, wind turbine equipment and fuel cell equipment. 
 in addition, metrics and measurement methods are defined for cooling equipment such as air 
conditioning equipment, outdoor air cooling equipment and heat exchanging cooling equipment. 
 uri: http://www.itu.int/itu-t/recommendations/rec.aspx?id=12136 
• itu-t l.renewable : this draft document defines the interface and architecture for injecting 
renewable energy and distributed power sources into an up to 400 v power system as defined in 
recommendation itu-t l.1201. 
 url: http://www.itu.int/itu-t/workprog/wp_item.aspx?isn=10018 
• itu-t l.green_mgm_dc : this recommendation describes the functionality requirements and 
framework of green data centre energy -saving management systems. the energy saving will be 
realized through performance to increase the energy efficiency of data centres. the scope of this 
recommendation includes: 
– characteristics and operation flow of green data centre energy-saving management systems; 
– functionality requirements of green data centre energy-saving management systems (e.g., real-
time energy consumption data acquisition; energy consumption data analysis and chart show; 
energy consumption data query; energy consumption monitorin g and early warning; strategy 
optimization, etc.); 
– capability needs of green data centre energy -saving management systems (e.g., collect data 
from different communication interfaces; secure storage; control management, etc.) 
– framework of green data centre energy-saving management systems. 
 sensor definition, interface and protocol are not included in the scope of this recommendation. 
 url: http://web.itu.int/itu-t/workprog/wp_item.aspx?isn=10367 
• itu-t l.1440: recommendation itu -t l.1440 gives general guidance for city -level environmental 
assessments related to icts, and provides a description of methodologies to be used for the 
assessment of the environmental impact of icts in cities. 
 in this first edition of this recommendation, the assessment is limited to energy consumption and 
ghg emissions. 
 the recommendation is divided in two parts.  
– part i relates to the first order effects from the use of ict goods and networks in a cit y's 
organizations and households.  
– part ii relates to the first and second order effects from ict projects and services applied in the 
city. 
 this recommendation provides specific guidance in setting the city boundaries, preparing and 
performing the assessment of ict-related ghg emissions and energy consumption at the city level. 
 uri: http://www.itu.int/itu-t/recommendations/rec.aspx?id=12431  
• itu-t l.1204: recommendation itu-t l.1204 describes the extended architecture of power feeding 
systems of up to 400 volts dc (vdc) for information and communication technology (ict) equipment 
in telecommunication centres, data centres and customer premises. it describes aspects such as 
configuration, redundancy, power distribution and monitoring, in order to construct safe, reliable 
and manageable power feeding systems. this recommendation can be used also as an architecture 
