5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
852  
appendix i 
 
use case of inter-cloud trust management 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
i.1 use case template 
the use cases developed in this appendix should adopt the following unified format for better readability and 
convenient material organization. 
table i.1 – use case template 
title the title of the use case 
description scenario description of the use case 
roles roles involved in the use case 
figure (optional) figure to explain the use case, optional not mandatory 
pre-conditions (optional) the necessary pre-conditions that should be achieved before starting 
the use case  
post-conditions (optional) the post-conditions that will be carried out after the termination of 
current use case 
derived requirements requirements derived from the use cases, whose detailed description 
is presented in the dedicated chapter 
i.2 use case of trusted network function virtualization 
this use case illustrates trust management aspect in inter-cloud. the federation pattern of inter-cloud used 
to illustrate the use case is an example only. 
table i.2 – trusted network function virtualization 
title trusted network function virtualization  
description a csc requests ''premium aoftware'' as a service (software as a service (saas)), respecting 
network quality of service (qos). the csp (saas) forms inter-cloud federation pattern 
among csp(paas) and csps (network as a service (naas)). the csp(saas) becomes contact 
point for csc. the csp-a(naas) and csp-b(naas) uses network function virtualization (nfv) 
and sdn technologies to serve naas service. the csp(saas) uses a trust management 
system to keep track of csp(naas) service. in case csp-a(naas) performed out of schemes 
used to compute trust, the saas service is automatically established between the csp(saas) 
and csp-b(naas). additionally, the csp(saas) updates information on reputation of 
csps(naas). 
roles csc, csp(saas), csp(paas), csp(naas). 
