5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
936  
[i-d. draft-ietf-scim-core-schema-03] – system for cross-domain identity management: core schema 
[i-d. draft-khasnabish-cloud-reference-framework] – cloud reference framework 
i.8 iso/iec jtc 1 references and associated summaries 
[iso/iec wd 17788] – cloud computing vocabulary 
[iso/iec dis 17789] – topology and orchestration specification for cloud applications (tosca) version 1.0 
i.9 nist references and associated summaries 
[nist sajacc internal group report] – sajacc working group recommendations to nist 
this document describes the work done by the sajacc working group so far, which has resulted in a set of 
preliminary use cases developed for the first pass thro ugh the sajacc process and a set of initial 
demonstration validation evaluations. through a series of open workshops, and through public comment and 
feedback, nist will continue to refine these use cases and add new use cases as appropriate.  
[nist sajacc white paper] – virtual machine portability white paper 
this white paper describes the current technologies, formats and tools that support virtual machine (vm) 
portability. it identifies challenges and opportunities for further improvements to interoperability, and 
presents a high-level summary of key vm portability problems faced by cloud consumers today. 
[nist sp 800-145] – the nist definition of cloud computing 
the nist definition characterizes important aspects of cloud computing and is intended to serve as a means 
for broad comparisons of cloud services and deployment strategies, and to provide a baseline for discussion 
from what is cloud computing to how to be st use cloud computing. the service and deployment models 
defined form a simple taxonomy that is not intended to prescribe or constrain any particular method of 
deployment, service delivery or business operation. 
[nist sp 500-292] – nist cloud computing reference architecture 
this document presents the nist cloud computing reference architecture (ra) and taxonomy (tax) that will 
accurately communicate the components and offerings of cloud computing. the guiding principles used to 
create the ra were 1) devel op a vendor-neutral architecture that is consistent with the nist definition and 
2) develop a solution that does not stifle innovation by defining a prescribed technical solution. 
[nist sp 500-293vol1] – us government cloud computing technology roadmap volume i release 1.0: 
high-priority requirements to further usg agency cloud computing adoption 
volume i to the us government cloud computing technology roadmap, an interagency  document 
developed to foster adoption of cloud computing by federal agencies and s upports the private sector, and 
reduces uncertainty by improving the information available to decision. 
[nist sp 500-293vol2] – us government cloud computing technology roadmap volume ii release 1.0: 
useful information for cloud adopters 
volume i to the us  government cloud computing technology roadmap, an interagency  document 
developed to foster adoption of cloud computing by federal agencies and supports the private sector, and 
reduces uncertainty by improving the information available to decision. 
