4 video processing and storage  
 
774  
1 scope 
this recommendation describes architecture, functional entities, reference points and service control flow 
of cloud storage in visual surveillance. 
2 references 
the following itu-t recommendations and other references contain provisions which, through reference in 
this text, constitute provisions of this recommendation. at the time of publication, the editions ind icated 
were valid. all recommendations and other references are subject to revision; users of this recommendation 
are therefore encouraged to investigate the possibility of applying the most recent edition of the 
recommendations and other references listed below. a list of the currently valid itu-t recommendations is 
regularly published. the reference to a document within this recommendation does not give it, as a stand -
alone document, the status of a recommendation. 
[itu-t h.626] recommendation itu-t h.626 (2011), architectural requirements for visual 
surveillance. 
[itu-t f.743.2] recommendation itu-t f.743.2 (2016), requirements for cloud storage in visual 
surveillance. 
[itu-t m.60] recommendation itu-t m.60 (1993), maintenance terminology and definitions. 
[itu-t y.101] recommendation itu-t y.101 (2000), global information infrastructure terminology: 
terms and definitions. 
[itu-t y.2012] recommendation itu-t y.2012 (2010), functional requirements and architecture of 
next generation networks. 
3 definitions 
3.1 terms defined elsewhere 
this recommendation uses the following terms defined elsewhere: 
3.1.1 application [itu-t y.101]: a structured set of capabilities, which provide value -added functionality 
supported by one or more services. 
3.1.2 cloud storage [itu-t f.743.2]: a data storage model for enabling service users to have ubiquitous, 
convenient and on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable storage resources, which can be 
rapidly provisioned and released with minimal manage ment effort or service-provider interaction. in cloud 
storage systems, the physical and virtual resources can be dynamically assigned and reassigned according to 
user demand. 
3.1.3 customer [itu-t m.60]: an entity which receives services offered by a servi ce provider based on a 
contractual relationship. it may include the role of a network user. 
3.1.4 customer unit [itu-t h.626]: a device located at the customer part of a visual surveillance system 
and used to present multimedia information (such as audio, video, image, alarm signal, etc.) to the end user. 
3.1.5 functional architecture [itu-t y.2012]: a set of functional entities and the reference points between 
them, used to describe the structure of an ngn. these functional entities are separated by reference points, 
and thus, they define the distribution of functions. 
note 1 – the functional entities can be used to describe a set of reference configurations. these reference 
configurations identify which reference points are visible at the boundaries of equipment implementation and between 
administrative domains. 
note 2 – the definition is not only applicable to ngns, but also to other ip packet switch based networks.  
