1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
144  
1 scope 
this recommendation provides functional requirements for cloud service brokerage (csb). it addresses the 
following subjects: 
– overview of cloud service brokerage; 
– functional requirements of cloud service brokerage; 
– use cases of cloud service brokerage. 
2 references 
the following itu-t recommendations and other references contain provisions which, through reference in 
this text, constitute provisions of this recommendation. at the time of publication, the editions indicated 
were valid. all recommendations and other references are subject to revision; users of this recommendation 
are therefore encouraged to investigate the possibil ity of applying the most recent edition of the 
recommendations and other references listed below. a list of the currently valid itu-t recommendations is 
regularly published. the reference to a document within this recommendation does not give it, as a stan d-
alone document, the status of a recommendation. 
[itu-t x.1601] recommendation itu-t x.1601 (2015), security framework for cloud computing. 
[itu-t y.3500] recommendation itu-t y.3500 (2014), information technology – cloud computing – 
overview and vocabulary. 
[itu-t y.3502]  recommendation itu-t y.3502 (2014), information technology – cloud computing – 
reference architecture. 
3 definitions 
3.1 terms defined elsewhere 
this recommendation uses the following terms defined elsewhere: 
3.1.1 cloud service customer [itu-t y.3500]: party which is in a business relationship for the purpose of 
using cloud services.  
3.1.2 cloud service provider [itu-t y.3500]: party which makes cloud services available. 
3.1.3 cloud service broker [itu-t y.3500]: cloud service partner that negotiates relationships between 
cloud service customers and cloud service providers. 
3.1.4 inter-cloud provider [itu-t y.3502]: a sub-role of cloud service provider that relies on one or more 
peer cloud service providers to provide part or all of the cloud services offered to cloud service customers. 
3.1.5 product catalogue [itu-t y.3502]: a listing of all the cloud service products which cloud service 
providers make available to cloud service customers. 
3.1.6 service level agreement [b-iso/iec 19086-1]: documented agreement between the cloud service 
provider and cloud service customer that governs the covered service(s). 
note – a cloud service agreement can consist of one or more parts recorded in one or more documents . 
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation 
this recommendation defines the following term: 
3.2.1 cloud service brokerage: a service that arbitrates, delivers, and manages cloud services provided by 
csps for cscs. 
note – cloud service brokerage is realized by cloud service broker w ith new activities. the new activities are (i) assist 
csc for accessing service and (ii) check and control service status.   
