1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
248  
table ii.3 – distributed cloud infrastructure and service management 
use case 
figure 
 
pre-conditions 
(optional) 
 
post-conditions 
(optional) 
 
requirements – heterogeneous device access (see clause 7.1) 
– global management (see clause 7.4) 
– heterogeneous resource management (see clause 7.4) 
– end device connectivity management (see clause 7.4) 
– resource isolation and protection (see clause 7.5) 
ii.4 distributed cloud infrastructure and service provisioning 
table ii.4 – distributed cloud infrastructure and service provisioning 
use case 
name distributed cloud infrastructure and service provisioning. 
description this use case describes the distributed cloud infrastructure and service provisioning.  
distributed cloud can provision infrastructure and deliver service among core, regional and edge 
cloud. 
the distributed cloud infrastructure contains various  hardware and software, including servers, 
storage, network devices and software. the edge cloud especially is resource-constrained due to 
space and power. the infrastructure provision process includes hardware initiation, network 
configuration and softwar e installation. after provisioning, the services including security 
functions and suites can be provided based on the infrastructure. also, if a cloud service needs 
to use an edge cloud resource, it is reconfigured or developed to run on the edge cloud with small 
capacity and heterogeneous resources. 
the distributed cloud infrastructure can be maintained and upgraded by distributed cloud 
management. the provisioning is a policy -based process so it can be done automatically on 
distributed cloud resources. 
once the distributed cloud infrastructure has been provisioned, the cloud service should be 
deployed and delivered rapidly to the suitable distributed cloud resource by high -speed and 
reliable network connectivity based on service's sla, such as required res ources, maximum 
latency, required or useful services, etc. the deployed service can be maintained and upgraded 
based on global management. for accurate global management, status information of cloud 
service and distributed cloud resource are synchronized from edge/regional cloud to core cloud.  

