2 cloud computing management  
 
446  
 
figure i.1 – example of e2e cloud computing management in practice 
note – this figure is based on the comprehensive view of cloud computing management. see clause 8 . 
the stages shown in figure i.1 are as follows: 
1) the csc places the order for the entire package; 
2) customer management assesses the validity of the order, determines the appropriate sla to apply 
to the overall package, and invokes the individual product objects in the product management layer. 
there are two of these, a network product and a cloud service product; 
3) the network product management creates a network as a service (naas) within the csp service layer, 
identifying endpoint and network characteristics needed for the overall service. it also requests the 
creation of a naas service from another cs p which includes wide -area telecommunications 
connectivity. this is done by making smi-based requests to instantiate the naas service at the other 
csp. the internal and external naas instances are then interconnected with agreed endpoints and 
slas suitable to meet the overall objective; 
4) the video cloud product orchestrate s a set of cloud services including video processing, storage, 
content management, a software as a service (saas) for the billing and subscription, etc; 
5) because the video processing s ervice does not have the capability to directly handle some of the 
video formats the customer has requested, the video processing service requests this capability as 
a specialist platform as a service (paas) from a third csp. the paas is provided with the code 
necessary to work with the content platform; 
6) each of the invok ed services is responsible for creating and managing the underlying cloud 
computing resources, including compute, storage, and networking. each of them is also responsible 
for monitoring the functions of those resources, and reporting usage, performance, f aults and sla 
breaches up to their "parent" management layer for aggregation and analysis. 
in this way, a very large and complex cloud -based solution is requested, instantiated, and mana ged as a 
whole, both for business and operational purposes. within each csp, the logic of orchestration is a key point 
of differentiation, but the individual management interfaces follow the general smi approach, making for a 
relatively straightforward management architecture. 

