security 7 
 
  1013 
7.5 security controls in migrate stage 
guidelines for security controls in the migrate stage include the following: 
a) network connectivity should be assessed prior to data migration to ensure the safety of the 
migration process. 
b) csps should ensure that data integrity and confidentiality is not affected during a migration. 
c) csps should ensure that data migration does not affect the continuity of services and applications. 
d) csps should conduct data backup and recovery-related work appropriately during data migration. 
e) csps should establish a migration scheme, assess its feasibility and associated risk s, then develop 
risk control measures accordingly as preparations for data migration. 
7.6 security controls in destroy stage 
guidelines for security controls in the destroy stage include the following: 
a) csps should be able to erase all key material related to encrypted data. 
b) csps should utilize physical destruction, such as degaussing of physical media when 
decommissioning storage hardware. 
c) csps should utilize data recovery techniques to confirm destruction processes. 
d) csps should be  able to provide means to help clear legacy data caused by the migration of data 
among different cloud platforms, the termination of service and contract, and natural disasters. 
e) csps should provide means to remove all copies of the data. 
f) csps should ensure that the storage space for user authentication information, such as the user 
account and password, are not released or reallocated to other users until that information is fully 
cleared. 
g) csps should ensure that the storage space for resources, su ch as files, directories and database 
records, are not released or reallocated to other users until those resources are fully cleared. 
h) csps should provide means to prevent the recovery of destroyed data. 
7.7 security controls in backup and restore stage 
guidelines for security controls in the backup and restore stage include the following: 
a) csps should utilize content recovery mechanisms, like those for data loss prevention, to assist in 
identifying and auditing data that needs to be backed up. 
b) csps should support an appropriate encryption algorithm for long -term (archival) storage media 
backup, such as the use of long encryption keys and planning for replacement with an improved 
encryption algorithm. 
c) csps should provide local data backup and reco very functions. complete data backup should be 
conducted at least once a week and the incremental backup at least once a day. 
d) a remote disaster recovery centre should be established, with facilities such as communication lines, 
network equipment and dat a processing equipment  that are needed for disaster recovery  
integrated into them. 
e) a redundancy disaster recovery centre could be established. it should provide a basic equivalent 
capability for business operation and synchronize data in real time via a  high-speed link. it could 
share the operations of the business and management systems simultaneously while maintaining 
business continuity through an emergency switch in disaster situations. 
f) for data that is categorized as either important or sensitive , the csps should provide remote data 
backup functions together with the capability for timely data recovery. one approach to providing 
this service would be via a network utilizing a disaster recovery centre. 
 
  
