3 xaas  
 
720  
– the ability to check and delete useless policies. for example, if a data policy is update d, obsolete 
ones need to be deleted;  
– the ability to apply data policies to the process of data collection, data processing, data preservation, 
data storage, etc. 
 note 4 – data preservation policy is used to protect and prolong  the existence and authenticity of data and 
its metadata. 
7.3.3.3 data catalogue functional component 
the data catalogue functional component is mainly responsible for registering data catalogue, and it also 
supports searching data by browsing data catalogue. this functional compon ent is a sub -function of the 
service catalogue functional component defined in [itu-t y.3502]. 
this functional component provides: 
– registering a data catalogue to cloud service partner (csp) for searching the appropriate data. data 
catalogue provides data access methods, data use policy, etc.; 
– data searching capability that allows browsing of data catalogue and searching data with keywords, 
application domain, specific data fields, etc. 
7.3.3.4 resource orchestration functional component for big data 
bdaas services are provisioned and maintained over underlying resources which belong  to the cloud 
computing infrastructure, including processing resources, storage resources and network resource s. the 
resource orchestration functional component for big data is responsible for  binding, load balancing and 
scheduling resources provided by service providers (e.g., csp: big data infrastructure p rovider (bdip)) and 
requested by csc: bdsu. 
this functional component provides: 
– resource binding that supports allocating resources related to data processing, data storage and 
data analysis; 
– resource load balancing that enables automated resource movement as workload requirements 
change; 
– resource scheduling that allocates resources to tasks required by big data services, and schedules  
the start- and end-time of each task according to resource availability. 
8 cross-cutting aspects for bdaas 
cross-cutting aspects can be shared and can impact multiple roles, cloud computing activities and functional 
components, as described in [itu-t y.3502]. this clause defines cross-cutting aspects for bdaas. 
8.1 data redundancy 
data redundancy refers to the repeated occurrence of the same data in the system. for example, in a 
relational database, data redundancy mainly refers to the repeated storage of the same data in the relational 
database, including repetition of tables, attributes, tuples, and attribute values. necessary data redundancy 
can improve the anti -interference ability of data, thus preventing data loss and errors. for example, 
redundantly encoding data by adding several bits based on the length of the original binary code, to prevent 
key data loss and errors. 
however, data redundancy should be minimized to improve storage space utilization, but in some cases, data 
redundancy should also be increased appropriately. data compression and de -duplication are two key 
technologies to reduce data redundancy. 
csp: big data application provider (bdap) and csp: bdip support reducing unnecessary redundant data and 
increase useful data redundancy appropriately. 
