7 security  
 
1048 
3.1.3 the following term is defined in iso/iec 17203: 
– virtual machine: the complete environment that supports the execution of guest software. 
note – a virtual machine is a full encapsulation of the virtual hardware, virtual disks, and the metadata associated 
with it. virtual machines allow multiplexing of the underlying physical machine through a software layer called a 
hypervisor. 
3.2 abbreviations 
for the purposes of this recommendation | international standard, the following abbreviations apply: 
iaas infrastructure as a service 
paas platform as a service 
pii personally identifiable information 
saas software as a service 
sla service level agreement 
vm virtual machine 
4 cloud sector-specific concepts 
4.1 overview 
the use of cloud computing has changed how organizations should assess and mitigate information security 
risks because of the significant changes in how computing resources are technically designed, operated and 
governed. this recommendation | international standard provides additional cloud-specific implementation 
guidance based on iso/iec 27002 and provides additional controls to address cloud-specific information 
security threats and risks considerations. 
users of this recommendation | international standard should refer to clauses 5 to 18 in iso/iec 27002 for 
controls, implementation guidance and other information. because of  the general applicability of 
iso/iec 27002, many of the controls, implementation guidance and other information apply to both the 
general and cloud computing contexts of an organization. for example, " 6.1.2 segregation of duties " of 
iso/iec 27002 provides a control that can be applied whether the organization is acting as a cloud service 
provider or not. additionally, a cloud service customer can derive requirements for segregation of duties in 
the cloud environment from the same control, e.g., segregating the cloud service customers' cloud service 
administrators and cloud service users. 
as an extension to iso/iec 27002, this recommendation | international standard further provides cloud 
service specific controls, implementation guidance and other information (see clause 4.5) that are intended 
to mitigate the risks that accompany the technical and operational features of cloud services (see annex b). 
the cloud service customers and the cloud service providers can refer to iso/iec 27002 and this 
recommendation | international standard to select controls with the implementation guidance, and add 
other controls if necessary. this process can be done by performing an information security risk assessment 
and risk treatment in the organizational and business context where cloud services are used or provided (see 
clause 4.4). 
4.2 supplier relationships in cloud services 
iso/iec 27002 clause 15 "supplier relationships" provides controls, implementation guidance and other 
information for managing information security in supplier relationships. the provision and use of cloud 
services is a kind of supplier relationship, where the cloud service customer is an acquirer, and the cloud 
service provider is a supplier. therefore, the clause applies to cloud service customers and cloud service 
providers. 
cloud service customers and cloud service providers can also form a supply chain. suppose that a cloud 
service provider provides an infrastructure capabilities type service. in addition , another cloud service 
provider can provide an application capabilities type service. in this case, the second cloud service provider 
