xaas 3 
 
  615 
• on-demand reconfiguration 
 cloud computing system allows for dynamic computing and storage resources reconfiguration or 
migration to meet the changing requirements. it is  desirable that networks provide on -demand 
reconfiguration to satisfy the requirements of cloud serv ices, e.g., change of bandwidth, 
modification of network topology or addition of new network elements. 
6.2 high-level concept of naas 
as defined in [itu-t y.3500], network as a service (naas) is a category of cloud services in which the capability 
provided to the cloud service customer ( csc) is transport connectivity and related network capabilities  in 
order to solve the challenges mentioned above. naas services are divided into naas application service, naas 
platform service and naas connectivity service. in particular, naas connectivity service is an "infrastructure 
capabilities type" service limited to networking resources. 
the high -level concept of naas us ing the layering framework defined in [itu -t y.3502] is illustrated on 
figure 6-1. 
naas can provide any of the three cloud capabilities identified in [itu-t y.3500] as follows: 
• naas application : application capabilities type of service where naas csc can use network 
applications provided by naas cloud service provider (csp). these ne twork applications are 
considered and used as a virtual network functions provided by naas csp. this includes any network 
function for either fixed or mobile or both core and access as well as for control and forwarding 
planes network elements. examples of  naas applications include virtual router, virtual content 
delivery network (vcdn), virtualised evolved packet core (vepc) and virtual firewall (vfw). 
 in this category, csp offers a set of interfaces for network functionalities. 
• naas platform: platform capabilities type of service where naas csc can use the network platform 
provided by naas csp. the naas platform offers one or more software execution environments and 
one or more programming languages to deploy, manage and run customer -created or customer -
acquired network applications. such network applications can be created or acquired by csc as self-
implemented network services. network applications can implement various ne twork 
functionalities or services, e.g., router, firewall, load balancer, as well  as groups of network 
functionalities. groups of network applications and functionalities can form an integrated network 
solution. 
 in this category, csp offers a programmable  environment for network functionalities that can be 
employed by cloud service customer or cloud service partner software. 
• naas connectivity: infrastructure capabilities type of service where naas csc can provision and use 
networking connectivity resourc es provided by naas csp. this includes for example flexible and 
extended virtual private network (vpn), bandwidth on demand ( bod), etc. naas can provide basic 
networking functionalities such as connecti vity, using whatever physical, logical or virtual 
networking capabilities the csp chooses to offer. there is often a desire to offer more than ip 
networking. for example, a csc may wish for elastic, on -demand control of optical networks, or 
even for access to dark fibre using photonic switching. 
 in this cate gory, csp offers network connections between two or more endpoints, which may 
include additional network functionalities. 
 note 1 – the creation, control, management and removal of naas connectivity is performed as a cloud 
service. 
 note 2 – naas typically provides "bearer" connectivity of raw data without regard to the type of data carried 
between endpoints. services that are specific to a type of carried data, such as telephony, voice over ip (voip), 
video conferencing, and instant messaging, are typically categorised as communications as a service (caas). 
 note 3 – the endpoints of naas connectivity can reside either within the naas service interface itself, in 
another cloud service, in a non-cloud service or at a traditional network endpoint. 
naas services can be utilized by both cloud and non-cloud services.  
