5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
890  
table ii.2 – test case: vm migration 
vm migration test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc migrates the vm from a particular host to another host. 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.1.3 
 step type description result 
 1 stimulus the csc migrates the vm in power off state to another host.   
 2 stimulus the csc starts the vm.  
 3 check the vm is running on the target host without any changes.   
 4 stimulus the csc migrates the running vm to another host.  
 5 check the vm is running on the target host without any changes; 
the service carried by the vm is still on during the migration. 
 
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if at least one check is successful, otherwise it 
is deemed as failed. 
 
ii.1.3 test case: vm snapshot 
table ii.3 shows the test case for vm snapshot. 
table ii.3 – test case: vm snapshot 
vm snapshot test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc captures the state (vm memory, settings and virtual disks) of the 
vm by taking snapshots and rolling back to the previous vm state when needed. 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.1.5 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc uses an application running on a vm.  
2 stimulus the csc takes a snapshot (with memory state) of the vm, 
called snapshot a. 
 
3 stimulus the csc makes some changes to the application and closes it, 
and reconfigures the vm. 
 
4 stimulus the csc takes another snapshot (with memory state) of the 
vm, called snapshot b. 
 
5 stimulus the csc restores snapshot a.  
6 check the vm's virtual disk, configurations and memory state are 
consistent with the state when snapshot a was taken. the 
application is running on the vm without any changes.  
 
7 stimulus the csc deletes snapshot a and restores snapshot b.  
8 check the vm's virtual disk, configurations and memory state are 
consistent with the state when snapshot b was taken. the 
application is not running on the vm.  
 
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
ii.1.4 test case: vm clone 
table ii.4 shows the test case for vm clone. 
