intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  919 
virtualization format (ovf). open data center a lliance (odca) proof of concept ( poc) shows how oasis 
topology and orchestration specification for cloud applications (tosca) standard can be used to fulfil industry 
requirements for application portability in the enterprise cloud. tm forum, oasis, w3c cover platform as a 
service (paas)/software as a service (saas) level cloud interoperability and testing to some extent. 
this clause lists and briefly describes  representative cloud computing sdos' activities/specifications which 
are used in cloud interoperability testing. 
5.1.1 dmtf 
the mission of distributed management task force (dmtf) is to create standards that enable interoperability 
among multi-vendor systems, tools and solutions within the enterprise. 
dmtf works on cloud computing management interface related aspects of common core identifiers (ccis). 
dmtf's cloud management initiative (cmi) is focused on developing interoperable cloud inf rastructure, 
management standards and promoting adoption of those standards in the industry. 
cloud management working group (cmwg) and open virtualization format working group (ovfwg) of dmtf 
are developing cloud computing interoperability related standards. the cimi developed by cmwg is a self-
service interface for infrastructure clouds, allowing cloud users to dynamically provision, configure and 
administer their cloud usage using a high level interface that abstracts away much of complexity of system 
management. ovf developed by ovfwg is a packaging standard designed to address the portability and 
deployment of virtual appliances. ovf enables simplified and error -free deployment of virtual appliances 
across multiple virtualization platforms. 
table 5-1 – dmtf documents and work items related to cci 
reference name/title status 
dsp-is0101 interoperable clouds published 
dsp0264 cimi-cim specification published 
dsp0263 cimi model and restful http-based protocol published 
dsp0243 open virtualization format specification published 
5.1.2 etsi  
the european telecommunications standards institute (etsi) is an independent, non-profit, standardization 
organization in the telecommunications industry (equipment makers and network operators) in europe, with 
worldwide projection. 
the goal of  etsi technical committee cloud ( etsi tc cloud, tc grid renamed tc cloud in 2010) is to 
address issues associated with the convergence between information technology (it) and 
telecommunications, paying particular attention to the lack of interoperable cloud solutions. 
etsi works on definitions, service level agreements (slas) and testing methodologies related to aspects of 
cci. 
etsi tc cloud ha s developed technical reports on standardization requirements for cloud services. 
portability and interoperability of clouds is one of the main requirements [etsi tr 102 997]. 
etsi tc cloud have also developed cci testing related standards including interop erability testing 
specification for occi and cdmi [etsi ts 103 142] and cloud specific sla standards [etsi tr 103 125]. 
test descriptions for cloud interoperability [etsi ts 103 142] specifies interoperability test descriptions for 
occi and cdmi standards. 
slas for cloud services [etsi tr 103 125 ] aims to review previous work on slas and to derive potential 
requirements for cloud specific sla standards. 
