xaas 3 
 
  553 
based on application streaming and virtualization technologies, cscs can access the virtual desktop 
environment through cloud infrastructure.  
a few technologies can be used for providing services of the daas like virtual desktop infrastructure (vdi) 
and web-based solutions with various delivery protocols such as  the virtual desktop delivery protoco l and 
the web-based delivery protocol shown in figure 6-2. 
...
y .3503(14)_f6-2
access layer
services layer
resource layer
virtual desktop
delivery protocol
user layer
web-based
delivery protocol
daas client daas client
 
figure 6-2 – daas delivery solutions 
vdi supports the users' virtual desktop and recreates it in an environme nt hosted on a remote system. 
a virtual desktop is exe cuted for each user from the server side. users access this environment remotely 
through daas clients, with all virtual desktop associated processing. a v irtual desktop delivery protocol is 
used to deliver the virtual desktop.  
in the web-based daas solution, a web-based server invokes application services from different servers and 
aggregates them to build a virtual desktop service. the web -based daas solu tion relies on cloud services 
provided through the use of web oriented technologies, i.e., based on the hypertext transfer protocol (http), 
hypertext markup language (html) and the new features supported by html5 [b-w3c-html5].  
6.1 main advantages of daas  
the main advantages of daas [b-itu-t fgcc1] are: 
• enhanced management and security : since all deskt op applications actually run in a csp server, 
they are more secure than if they were installed on each user's daas client since the csp can focus 
more on security aspects. 
• lower total cost of ownership : by placing emphasis on the data centre rather than on individual 
user devices, daas promotes longer hardware life. organizations or enterprises seeking to avoid 
additional costs can switch part of their information and communication technology infrastructure 
from capital expenditure to operating expenditur e, as they now pay for virtual desktops. also, 
decoupling the desktop operating system from the hardware permits the use of cost-effective user's 
devices. 
• preservation of user experience : daas allows for a rich user experience by enabling the possible 
choice among multiple operating systems and their customization. conversely, shared service 
environments offer a user experience that may compromise between application compatibility and 
user customization. 
• separation of csp and csc responsibilities: daas allows separation between the responsibilities of 
the csp and the csc. the csp is responsible for the infrastructure of virtual desktops delivery 
(i.e., servers, storage, virtualization software, etc.), while the virtual desktops (e.g., operating 
system (os), application packaging, user profiles, etc.) is under the csc responsibility. 
