6 monitoring  
 
958  
see table 7-11. 
table 7-11 – parameters collected for monitoring the transaction process 
metric name description unit 
transactions number of transactions during a period (1 min, 5 min, 15 min) transaction 
transaction rate transaction rate at which service requests are executed per second transaction/s 
errors number of error transactions transaction 
concurrent transactions average number of new transactions processed simultaneously transaction 
time per transactions average time necessary to process a single transactions item ms 
disk throughput rate throughput rate (input and output) for a specific service kb/s 
memory throughput rate throughput rate (input and output) for a specific service kb/s 
delay delay of message passing between processes ms 
time of task duration of specific predefined tasks ms 
7.2.3.2 load balance 
load balancing of cloud computing is the process of distributing workloads across multiple computing 
resources, which provides an efficient solution to various issues residing in cloud computing environment 
usage. 
see table 7-12. 
table 7-12 – parameters collected for monitoring the efficiency and  
effectiveness of load balancing 
metric name description unit 
load balance pool number of load balance pools pool 
load balance vips number of virtual internet protocol (vip) 
addresses member 
load balance member  number of load balance member member 
load balance health monitor number of load balance health monitor monitor 
load balance connections volume of load balance connections connection 
load balance active connections volume of load balance active connections connection 
load balance incoming bytes volume of load balance incoming bytes mb 
load balance outgoing bytes volume of load balance outgoing bytes mb 
7.2.3.3 database 
a cloud database is a database that typically runs on a cloud computing platform. poor database performance 
can dramatically degrade qos. cloud providers who offer database as a service, without physically launching 
a vm instance for the database, should have a clear picture of how a database is running and what is needed 
by consumers.  
a relational database is organized based on the relational model of the data. a non -relational database 
provides a mechanism for storage and retrieval of data that is modell ed by means other than the tabular 
relations used in relational databases. non -relational databases are increasingly used in big data and real -
time web applications. the operation mechanisms of the two types of databases are entirely different. so 
relational and non-relational databases should be monitored separately. 
  
