 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   91 
the service automation functional component  works with the provisioning functional component  and 
service integration functional component to achieve its goals. 
9.2.5.3.6 service level management 
the service level management functional component provides capabilities for managing the service levels of 
a particular cloud service, aiming to ensure that the cloud service meets the requirements of the sla which 
applies to the service. 
the service level management functional component manages the capacity and performance relating to a 
cloud service. this can involve the application of service policies (e.g., a placement rule which aims to avoid 
single points of failure). 
the service level management functional component obtains monitoring information from the monitoring 
and reporting functional component in order to measure and record key performance in dicators (kpis) for 
the cloud service. capacity is allocated or de-allocated based on the basis of these kpis. 
the service level management functional component also keeps track of the overall state of allocated and 
available resources. the comparison of allocated capacity against cloud service performance kpis can assist 
in the identification of current or potential bottlenecks, in support of capacity planning. 
9.2.5.3.7 incident and problem management 
the incident and problem management functional compone nt provides capabilities for the capture of 
incident or problem reports and managing those reports through to resolution. 
incidents and problems can be detected and reported by the cloud service provider's systems, or they can 
be detected and reported by cloud service customers. 
9.2.5.3.8 platform and virtualization management 
the platform and virtualization management functional component provides the capabilities for managing 
the underlying resources of the cloud service provider (compute, storage, networking) and for virtualizing 
the use of those resources (e.g., by means of hypervisors). 
the resources are typically organized into resource pools with key characteristics: 
• standardized hardware componentry and configuration; 
• readily expandable through the additional of new hardware capacity; 
• automated shifting of resources as workload needs change; 
• protection and isolation of neighbouring workloads and data; 
• reduce and/or eliminate downtime through movement of workloads and data between resources; 
• manage resource consumption based on goals (e.g., performance, availability, licences, energy use). 
9.2.5.3.9 peer service management 
the peer service management functional component provides capabilities for connecting the provider's 
operational support systems and business support systems to the administration capabilities and business 
capabilities of peer cloud service providers, in respect of peer cloud services that are used by the provider. 
the peer service management functional component is responsible for establishing the communication 
path(s) required, and for passing appropriate identity and credentials with requests made to the peer cloud 
service providers. 
9.2.5.4 business support systems components 
the business support systems functional components encompass the set of business -related management 
capabilities dealing with customers and supporting processes.  
