cloud computing management 2 
 
  441 
10.3.2.4  service test management 
this set of functionalities allows a csp to test the quality of services. they allow collect and compare quality 
and performance related indicators. the results can be optionally available to interested parties. this includes 
the following functionalities: 
1) service test strategy and policy management. this functionality manages the rules that define the 
strategies for conducting various service tests; 
2) service test lifecycle management. this functionality manages the e2e lifecycle of a service test; 
3) service test command and control. this functionality provides access, commands, and controls the 
service testing environment; 
4) service test services. this functionality provides the means to access the testing capabilities. 
10.3.3  service repositories functionalities 
this set includes functionalities for service catalogue management and service inventory management. 
the role of particular functionalities is described below. 
10.3.3.1 service catalogue management 
this set of functionalities allows the csp to list and manage available services. 
10.3.3.2  service inventory management 
this set of functionalities allows the csp to maintain information about already deployed and provided cloud 
services. it may also store and manage service relationships: the mapping to other services and/or service 
components as well as the mapping to resources used to implement a particular service. 
10.4 functionalities for cloud computing resource management 
this clause identifies functionalities related to resource management for the support of cloud services. these 
include resource fulfilment, resource assurance, resource charging and accounting and resource repositories 
functionalities. these functionalities related to resource management are presented in figure 10-5. 
note – "resource order management" corresponds to the process of taking, organizing, tracking and satisfying resource 
requests for the support of cloud services provided by a csp. 
 
figure 10-5 – functionalities related to cloud computing resource management 

