1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
88  
connect various processing, storage and networking units in the physical resources so that together they 
deliver an environment whe re naas, iaas, paas or saas cloud service  categories can be offered. the 
controller might decide which cpus and/or racks contain which virtual machines executing which parts of a 
given cloud service's workload, and how such processing units are connected to each other, and when to 
dynamically and transparently reassign parts of the workload to new units as conditions change. 
the decision as to whether the physical resources are virtualized or not depends on the workload 
characteristics to be run. for many cloud services' workloads (e.g., related to compute as a service and data 
storage as a service ), it is convenient to virtualize the underlying physical resources, especially since 
virtualization enables some scenarios which basically cannot be realized with a physical infrastructure (e.g., 
scenarios related to image management or dynamic scaling of cpu capacity as needed). for other workloads 
(e.g., analytics and/or search) it is required to have maximum compute capacity and use hundreds or 
thousands of nodes to run a single specialized workload. in such cases non-virtualized physical resources can 
be more appropriate. 
9.2.4.2 physical resources 
the physical resources functional component represents the elements needed by the cloud service provider 
to run and manage the cloud services that they offer. 
physical resources include hardware resources, such as computers (cpu and memory), networks (routers, 
firewalls, switches, network links and network connectors, storage components (hard disks) and othe r 
physical computing infrastructure elements. these resources can include those that reside inside cloud data 
centres (e.g., computing servers, storage servers, and intra -data centre networks), and those that reside 
outside of data centres, typically netwo rking resources, such as inter -data centre networks and core 
transport networks. 
all the elements of the physical resources are managed from the operational support systems functional 
component, with the capability to place instances of each cloud service onto the resources as required to 
satisfy customer requirements. note that typically, the operational support systems functional component 
itself runs on some part of the physical resources. 
9.2.5 multi-layer functions 
9.2.5.1 integration functional components 
the integration functional components  are responsible for connecting functional components  in the 
architecture to create a unified architecture. the integration functional components  provide message 
routing and message exchange mechanisms within the cloud architecture and its functional components as 
well as with external functional components. message routing can be based on various criteria, e.g., context, 
policies.  
the integration functional components include: 
• security integration; 
• monitoring integration; 
• service integration; 
• peer service integration. 
9.2.5.1.1 security integration 
the security integration functional component  provides integration to security capabilities including 
authentication, authorization, encryption and integrity verification and to policy mechanisms that relate to 
security capabilities. 
9.2.5.1.2 monitoring integration 
the monitoring integration functional component provides connection from functional components in the 
access layer, services layer and resource layer to the monitoring and reporting capabilities of the operational 
support systems. 
