5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
806  
appendix i 
 
use case of trusted inter-cloud computing 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
i.1 use case template 
the use cases developed in appendix i should adopt the following unified format for better readability and 
convenient material organization. 
title note: the title of the use case 
description note: scenario description of the use case 
roles note: roles involved in the use case 
figure (optional) note: figure to explain the use case, but not mandatory 
pre-conditions (optional) note: the necessary pre-conditions that should be 
achieved before starting the use case  
post-conditions (optional) note: the post-condition that will be carried out after 
the termination of current use case 
derived requirements note: requirements derived from the use cases, whose 
detailed description is presented in the dedicated 
chapter 
i.2 trusted inter-cloud related use cases 
i.2.1 use case of access security in trusted inter-cloud  
this use case illustrates the security aspects of trusted inter-cloud between the primary csp and secondary 
csps. the intermediary pattern of inter-cloud used to illustrate the use case is an example only. 
table i.2.1 – access security in trusted inter-cloud 
title access security in trusted inter-cloud  
description – the csc requests secure and malware free software as a service (saas). 
– the primary csp in an inter-cloud intermediary pattern (acts as 
csp(intermediary)) is the contact point for csc. 
– the csp(intermediary) integrates and validates services from multiple saas 
csps (secondary csps). 
– for the csp(intermediary), in order to guarantee secure and malware free 
saas software for csc, it is necessary to validate saas from secondary 
csp1(saas), csp2(saas) and csp3(saas). in case of negative saas validation  the 
csp offer of this saas is not presented to csc. 
– in case of connectivity problem between csp(intermediary) and csp1(saas), 
the service is automate established between csp(intermediary) and 
csp3(saas). 
roles csc, csp, csp(saas) 
