xaas 3 
 
  633 
figure  
(optional) 
 
pre-conditions 
(optional) 
– csp's ip carrier network support overlay network mechnism.  
post-conditions 
(optional) 
– csc's vms that run in different csp's data centres can communicate with each other. 
derived 
requirements 
– logically isolated network partition (refer to clause 9.12) 
– overlay network mechanism (refer to clause 9.13) 
ii.4.2.7 naas connectivity use case for private ip addresses and vpns 
 
title naas connectivity use case for private ip addresses and vpns 
description case i: public cloud site multi-tenant vpn gateway (gw) with overlapping private ip 
addresses 
multi-tenant vpn gw in a public cloud site is shared by csc-i-a and csc-i-b. both of them 
are interested to use the same private ip address pool for their end points.  
both of cscs are connected to the public cloud vpn gw through a given public ip address 
of it. the cloud vpn gw should be able to switch the traffic from each csc to a proper 
subnet. 
case ii: interworking support for different types of vpns 
csc-ii has site-to-site proprietary mpls-vpn connection between its headquarter (hq) and 
private data centre. according to the company progress, csc-ii is interested to establish 
new site-to-site and site-to-client secure vpn connections (e.g., ip security (ipsec) vpn and 
secure socket layer (ssl) vpn). new vpn connections are planned between their globally 
distributed branch offices and mobile users, while keeping the csc-ii existing vpn 
investments. naas csp should be able to provide interworking between the csc owned 
existing vpn and different types of new vpns. 
case iii: on-demand network support for the distributed end points  
csc-iii requires a solution of delivering reliable, predictable and on-demand network 
connections for all their locations. this service should be able to be changed dynamically 
according to the csc-iii's needs. the csc-iii is interested in elastic request parameters for 
connectivity to their location over the existing links. the connectivity should be established 
to one or more of the naas csp's points of presence (pops) with minimum efforts for 
deploying additional equipment. 
roles csp, csc 

