1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
346  
appendix iii 
 
mapping of big data ecosystem roles into user view of itu-t y.3502 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
table iii.1 shows the results of mapping between the sub-role of the cloud computing reference architecture 
(ccra) user view and the performance of similar roles in the big data ecosystem. a similar sub -role with a 
data supplier does not exist in ccra. a b ig data service customer and a csc may be considered to perform 
similar activities. similarly, a data broker and csn: cloud service broker may be considered in the same 
manner. if the ccra is assumed to contain the big data service area, the activities for the csn: cloud service 
broker should be extended in the data perspective. the big data service provider is related to all sub-roles of 
the csp. this means that the big data service provider could be treated with an implanted feature or an 
independent sub-role of the csp. 
table iii.1 – mapping of big data ecosystem roles and sub-roles of the ccra user view 
big data ecosystem 
user view 
of itu-t 
y.3502 
note 
data provider  
data supplier csn for the cloud computing based big data environment, the new 
sub-role of the csn for the data provider is required. 
data broker csn 
for the cloud computing based big data environment:  
(option 1) the extension of the activities of the csn: cloud 
service broker is required. 
(option 2) the new sub-role of the csn for data brokerage is 
required.  
(option 3) adding the "brokerage" activity on the sub-role which 
corresponds with the data supplier is required. 
big data service customer csc 
for the cloud-based big data service environment:  
(option 1) using the csc is required. 
(option 2) the new role or sub-role of the csc for the big data 
service customer is required. 
big data service provider  csp 
the big data service provider could be treated with an 
implemented feature.  
nevertheless, to clarify the cloud-based big data service, an 
independent sub-role of the csp for the big data service 
provider is required.  
 
  
