 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   87 
9.2.2.6 connection management 
the co nnection management functional component provides enforcement of qos policies regarding the 
traffic from and/or to the user layer functional components . the connection management functional 
component interacts with the multi-layer functions to retrieve policies stored there and enforces them locally 
in the access layer. 
9.2.3 services layer functional components 
the services layer functional components include: 
• service capabilities; 
• business capabilities; 
• administration capabilities; 
• service orchestration. 
9.2.3.1 service capabilities 
the service capabilities functional component consists of the necessary software required to implement the 
service offered to cloud service customers. it implements the functionality defined by the service interface, 
i.e., the interface offered to cloud service customers, independent of the service implementation. 
9.2.3.2 business capabilities 
the business capabilities functional component provides a set of capabilities for accessing the business 
function related to the provision of cloud services . the business function itself is contained within the 
business support systems functional components. 
9.2.3.3 administration capabilities 
the administration capabilities functional component  provides a set of capabilities  for accessing the 
administration function related to the provision of cloud services. 
the administration function itself is contained within the operations support systems and business support 
systems functional components. 
9.2.3.4 service orchestration 
the service orchestration functional component  provides coordination, aggregation and composition of 
multiple service components in order to deliver the cloud service. 
9.2.4 resource layer functional components 
the resource layer functional components include: 
• resource abstraction and control; 
• physical resources. 
9.2.4.1 resource abstraction and control 
the resource abstraction and control functional component is used by cloud service providers to provide 
access to the physical computing resources throug h software abstraction. resource abstraction needs to 
ensure efficient, secure and reliable usage of the underlying infrastructure. the control feature of the 
functional component enables the management of the resource abstraction features. 
the resource ab straction and control functional component  enables a cloud service provider  to offer 
qualities such as rapid elasticity, resource pooling and on-demand self-service. the resource abstraction and 
control functional component can include software elements such as hypervisors, virtual machines, virtual 
data storage, and time-sharing.  
the resource abstraction and control functional component  enables control functionality, enabling 
monitoring and management capabilities implemented in the operational support sy stems functional 
component (see clause 9.2.5.3). for example, there can be a centralized algorithm to control, correlate and 
