6 monitoring  
 
948  
the layering framework is shown schematically in figure 6-1. 
 
figure 6-1 – cloud computing layering framework 
the function of each layer in the framework is described in clause 9.2.1 of [itu-t y.3502]. 
figure 6-2 presents a high -level overview of the cloud computing reference architecture functional 
components organized by means of the layering framework. 
the relevant monitoring functional components are as follows. 
– resource abstraction and c ontrol functional component:  the resource abstraction and control 
functional component which resides in t he resources layer enables control functionality, enabling 
monitoring and management capabilities implemented in the  operational support systems 
functional component. 
monitoring and reporting functional component: the monitoring and reporting functional component that is 
one of the multilayer operational support systems provides capabilities for the following. 
– monitoring the activities of other functional components throughout the cloud provider's system. 
this includes the functional components that are involved in t he direct use of cloud services by 
customer cloud service users such as service access and service implementation (e.g., the invocation 
of cloud service operation by a particular user). this also includes functional components involved 
in the support of cloud services, such as functional components in the operational support system 
(oss) itself, like the service automation functional component (e.g., the provisioning of a service 
instance for a particular customer). 
– providing reports on the behaviour of the cloud service provider's system, which may take the form 
of alerts for behaviour that has a time -sensitive aspect (e.g., the occurrence of a fault, the 
completion of some task) or may take the form of aggregated forms of historical data (e.g., service 
usage data). 
– storage and retrieval of monitoring and event data as logging records. 
service level management functional component: t he service level management functional component, 
which also resides in the operational support systems, obtains monitoring information from the monitoring 
and reporting functional component in order to measure and record key performance indicators (kpis) for 
the cloud service. capacity is allocated or de-allocated based on the basis of these kpis. 
the details of the functional components are described in clause 9.2 of [itu-t y.3502]. 

