5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
850  
the inter-cloud computing functional architecture [itu-t y.3516] identifies inter-cloud specific extensions to 
functional components that are part of integration, security systems, operations support systems (osss) and 
business support systems (bsss). for trusted inter-cloud, it defines a function called trust management. the 
trust management functionalities (see clause 6.2 of [itu-t y.3514]) are supported by the "authorization and 
security policy management" functional component within the multi-layer functions of the cloud computing 
reference architecture [itu-t y.3502]. inter-cloud trust management can be realized using above functional 
components and functionalities. inter-cloud trust management is also supported by functional components 
for managing isolation and security mechanisms, these functional components located in the 
"security systems" of the cloud computing reference architecture, as well. 
this recommendation is based on the functions defined in [itu-t y.3502], [itu-t y.3516] and [itu-t y.3514]. 
this recommendation focuses on the trust management model and requirement s in an inter-cloud 
environment based on the establishment of relationship s (patterns) among multiple peer csps, including 
peering, federation and intermediary which are defined in [itu-t y.3511]. 
7 requirements for inter-cloud trust management 
this clause identifies requirements applicable to inter-cloud trust management. 
7.1 inter-cloud trust policies and credentials 
it is recommended that a csp provides specification of policies and credentials used for trust management. 
it is recommended that a csp implements a trust management system to evaluate whether the provided 
credentials satisfy the specified policy. 
7.2 inter-cloud reputation scoring 
it is recommended that a csp uses a trust scheme to evaluate whether other csps among inter -cloud 
relationships fulfil trust management requirements. 
it is recommended that a csp evaluate other csps among inter -cloud relationships to create and update 
reputation scoring of csps. 
7.3 inter-cloud reputation-based trust evaluation 
it is recommended that a csp has a trust evaluation system to manage other csps' reputations. 
it is recommended that a csp supports query and compares reputation of other csps from a third- party trust 
evaluation system. 
7.4 sso authentication 
it is recommended that a csp supports an sso mechanism to enable a csc’s access to various services offered 
by different csps once it is successfully authenticated by inter-cloud. 
7.5 periodical verification 
it is recommended that a csp supports a periodical verification mechanism to check if a csc still ha s the 
privilege of accessing the csp's service. 
7.6 control privilege for vm and data 
it is recommended that a csp avoids inspection or analysis of a csc's data and vm instances without explicit 
csc consent. 
it is recommended that a csp supports fine -grained csc control over protection of its cloud resources 
according to a given security sla. 
