5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
906  
appendix iii 
 
alignment analysis with [itu-t y.3513] 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
[itu-t y.3513] introduces the concept of infrastructure as a service (iaas) and describes its functional 
requirements. as one of the cloud computing service categories, iaas pro vides infrastructure capabilities as 
services by cloud service providers. it is necessary to ensure that the test cases cover requirements in [itu-t 
y.3513]. alignment analysis with requirements in [itu-t y.3513] is provided as table iii.1. 
table iii.1 – alignment analysis with functional requirements in [itu-t y.3513] 
 
functional requirements in [itu-t y.3513] test objects in this recommendation 
1 7 functional 
requirement 
– it is recommended that the iaas csp 
provides to the csc iaas functions, such as a 
composition of processing, storage, and 
networking resources with service logic, 
specific service level agreements (slas) and 
charging model. 
too general, not involved. 
2 
 
– it is required that the iaas csp provides the 
csc with operations handling mechanisms 
related to provisioned infrastructure 
resources, such as assign, modify, query and 
release. 
too general, not involved. 
3 
 
– it is recommended that the  iaas csp 
provides status information about the 
infrastructure in response to queries from 
the csc. 
too general, not involved. 
4 
 
– it is recommended that the iaas csp 
provides a template to the csc, related to 
instantiation of infrastructure, which allows 
for provision processing, storage and 
networking resources that could be 
implemented based on the configuration. 
too general, not involved. 
5 
 
– it is recommended that the iaas csp 
provides the csc with operations handling 
mechanisms related to infrastructure 
templates to allow modification of 
infrastructure, such as upload, update, 
disable, enable, query or release. 
too general, not involved. 
6 7.1 
computing 
service 
functional 
requirements 
– it is required that the iaas csp provides 
computing functions with specific slas and 
charging model to the csc. 
too general, not involved. 
