2 cloud computing management  
 
454  
cloud computing technology, and it can also be used to manage both traditional telecommunication networks 
and/or cloud computing infrastructures. a cloud -based management system  can be a cloud-aware 
management system, but it is not necessary to manage cloud infrastr uctures using a cloud -based 
management system. 
7 cloud-based network management functional architecture 
7.1 basic concept 
cloud computing is a technology from it domain, with the aim for a supplier to share computing and storage 
capabilities in the cloud to multiple customers. a system can be built using the traditional means, or using 
cloud computing technology to provide services to customer and using cloud as its infrastructure, as far as 
the services can be provided. a network management system is a sof tware system which provides network 
management services to operators or telecommunication service providers. thus using cloud technology in 
network management systems will also bring the benefits of cloud into the network management field.  
cloud-based net work management system may include two main parts, one is the cloud -based network 
management platform, and the other is management applications for various network technologies which 
are built over the management platform. 
figure 1 shows the basic concept of the cloud-based network management platform and the management 
applications. 
cloud-based network management platform
management 
application    
management 
application
management 
application
 
figure 1 – cloud-based network management platform and applications 
the cloud -based network management platform is described in details in clause 7.2. management 
application functions can be the applications that provide functions dedicate d for the management of a 
specific network technology (e.g. mobile core network, tran sport network), and they provide their own 
functionality for its dedicated network, and share the lower layer functions of the cloud -based network 
management platform, e.g., cloud infrastructure management, or common management services. 
