7 security  
 
1062 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
the cloud service customer's change management 
process should take into account the impact of any 
changes made by the cloud service provider. 
the cloud service provider should provide the cloud 
service customer with information regarding changes to 
the cloud service that could adversely affect the cloud 
service. the following will help the cloud service 
customer determine the effect the changes can have on 
information security: 
– categories of changes; 
– planned date and time of the changes; 
– technical description of the changes to the cloud 
service and underlying systems; 
– notification of the start and the completion of the 
changes. 
when a cloud service provider offers a cloud service 
that depends on a peer cloud service provider, then the 
cloud service provider might need to inform the cloud 
service customer of changes caused by the peer cloud 
service provider.  
other information for cloud services 
the list of items that should be included in the notification can be identified in an agreement, e.g., a master 
service agreement or a service level agreement (sla). 
12.1.3 capacity management 
control 12.1.3 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
the cloud service customer should ensure that the 
agreed capacity provided by the cloud service meets the 
cloud service customer's requirements. 
the cloud service customer should monitor the use of 
cloud services, and forecast their capacity needs, to 
ensure performance of the cloud services over time. 
the cloud service provider should monitor the total 
resource capacity to prevent information security 
incidents caused by resource shortages.  
other information for cloud services 
cloud services involve resources that are under the control of the cloud service provider and made available 
to the cloud service customer under the terms of the master service agreement and a related sla.  these 
resources include software, processing hardware, data storage, and network connectivity. 
elastic, scalable and on -demand allocation of resources in a cloud service generally increases the total 
capacity of the service. however, the cloud service customer should be aware that the resources provided 
could have capacity constraints. examples of capacity constraints include the number of processor cores for 
an application, the amount of storage available, or the network bandwidth available. 
the constraints can vary depending on the particular cloud service or the particular subscription that the 
cloud service customer purchases. if the cloud service customer has requirements that exceed the 
constraints, the cloud service customer might need to change the cloud service or change the subscription. 
  
