 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   93 
9.2.5.5 development support functional components 
the development support functional components support the cloud computing activities of the cloud service 
developer. this includes support of the development and/or composition of service implementations, build 
management and test management. 
the development support functional components include: 
• developer environment; 
• build management; 
• test management. 
9.2.5.5.1 developer environment 
the developer environment functional component provides the capabilities to support the development of 
the service impl ementation software. development of software components for the service is supported, 
plus tools which assist in composing the service from a set of other services. 
the developer environment functional component supports the use of the capabilities provided by the cloud 
service provider 's environment, including connections to resources and network, integration with other 
services (including services of peer cloud service providers), integration with monitoring and management 
capabilities, integration with security capabilities. 
the developer environment functional component also supports the creation of configuration metadata 
relating to the service being developed and also supports the creation of scripts and related artefacts that 
are used by the provider's operational support systems to provision and configure the service. 
9.2.5.5.2 build management 
the build management functional component supports the building of a ready-to-deploy software package 
which can be passed to the cloud service provider for deployment into the cloud service environment. the 
software package consists of both the service implementation software and also the configuration metadata 
and scripts. 
9.2.5.5.3 test management 
the test management functional component supports the execution of test cases against any build of the 
service implementation. the test management functional component produces reports of the executed tests 
and these can be communicated to the cloud service provider  along with a build of the service 
implementation. 
it is typical for testing to be performed in a specialized test environment, which closely approximates to the 
production environment without interfering with the production environment. for cloud computing, the test 
environment can be made available by the cloud service provider. 
10 relationship between the user view and the functional view 
10.1 general 
as well as specifying the roles and cloud computing activities  view in clause 8 and the functional view 
including architectural functional components in clause 9, this recommendation | international standard 
describes in this clause the logical relationships of the roles and cloud computing activities to the functional 
components. 
standards can be relevant to some of these relationships. stan dards associated with a relationship can be 
used to (i) specify degrees of information flow or other types of interoperability; and/or (ii) ensure specified 
degrees of quality (e.g., security or service level). 
logical relationships defined in this archite cture are a significant part of specifying the ccra and its 
behaviour. the relationship describes matters such as the required information flows between the functional 
components in the ccra. 
