1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
382  
7.1.4 itu-t sg11 
study group 11 is responsible for developing test specifications for testing conformance and interoperability 
(c&i) for all types of networks, technologies and services, a testing met hodology and test suites for 
standardized network parameters in relation to the framework for internet -related performance 
measurement, as well as for existing technologies (e.g., ngn) and emerging technologies (e.g., fn, cloud, 
sdn, nfv, iot, volte/vilte,  imt-2020 technologies, flying ad hoc networks, tactile internet, augmented 
reality, etc.).  
sg11 has been designated lead study group for establishing test specifications, conformance and 
interoperability testing for all types of networks, technologies and services that are the subject of study and 
standardization by all itu‑t study groups. 
7.1.5 itu-t sg16 
itu-t sg16 is advancing in its iptv recommendations, which have been successfully deployed in various 
countries. however, bearing in mind that the busi ness ecosystem is continuously changing and video -
oriented services became prosperous also out of an iptv domain, sg16 pursues more dynamic and adaptable 
features for iptv specifications. 
7.1.6 itu-t sg20 
itu-t sg20 does not have any ongoing work item dire ctly related to "cloud computing" at this stage. 
however, sg20’s activities may be linked to the activities in the area of cloud computing in the context of iot 
and smart cities and communities. as an example, q4/20 " e/smart services, applications and supp orting 
platforms" activities on supporting platform technologies for e/smart services, applications are related to 
cloud computing. 
7.1.7 itu-t sg2 
one of the mandates of itu-t sg2 is "operational and management aspects of networks, including network 
traffic management, designations and transport-related operations procedures". itu-t sg2 is also developing 
cloud-computing-management-related recommendations. itu -t sg2 has developed "overview of end -to-
end cloud computing management" and "require ments for service management in cloud -aware 
telecommunication management system" recommendations. currently itu -t sg2 is developing 
"requirements for resource management in cloud -aware telecommunication management system" and 
"cloud-based network management functional architecture". 
7.1.8 jtc 1 sc 38 (cloud computing and distributed platforms) 
sc 38 is a standardization subcommittee in iso/iec jtc 1 of the international organization for standardization 
(iso) and the international electrotechnical commission (iec). currently, there are two working groups under 
sc 38, listed below [b-jtc 1 sc 38]. 
– wg 3 (cloud computing fundamentals (ccf)) 
• projects related to cloud computing service agreements; 
• projects related to fundamental concepts, terminology and definitions for cloud computing; 
• projects related to guidance on use of international standards in the development of policies 
that govern or regulate cloud service providers and cloud services, and policies that govern the 
use of cloud services in enterprise organizations; 
• establish liaisons  and collaborate with other entities within jtc 1, sdos and consortia 
performing work related to cloud computing. 
– wg 5 (data in cloud computing and related technologies) 
• standardization i n the area of data in cloud computing, distributed platforms, connected 
devices and related technologies; 
• establish liaisons and collaborate with other entities within and external to jtc 1 as appropriate. 
