1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
50  
1 scope 
this recommendation | international standard specifies the cloud computing reference architecture (ccra). 
the reference architecture includes the cloud computing roles, cloud computing activities, and the cloud 
computing functional components and their relationships. 
2 normative references 
the following recommendations and international standards contain provisions which, through reference in 
this text, constitute provisions of this recommendation | international standard. at the time of publication, 
the editions indicated were valid. all recommendations and standards are subject to revision, and parties to 
agreements based on this recommendation | international standard are encouraged to investigate the 
possibility of applying the most recent edition of the  recommendations and standards listed below. 
members of iec and iso maintain registers of currently valid international standards. the 
telecommunication standardization bureau of the itu maintains a list of currently valid itu -t 
recommendations. 
2.1 identical recommendations | international standards  
– recommendation itu -t y.3500 (2014) | iso/iec 17788:2014, information technology – cloud 
computing – overview and vocabulary. 
2.2 additional references 
– iso/iec 29100:2011, information technology – security techniques – privacy framework. 
3 definitions 
for the purposes of this recommendation | international standard, the term s and definitions in rec. 
itu-t y.3500 | iso/iec 17788 and the following definitions apply. 
3.1 terms defined elsewhere 
the following term is defined in iso/iec/ieee 42010: 
3.1.1 architecture: fundamental concepts or properties of a system in its environment embodied in its 
elements, relationships and in the principles of its design and evolution. 
the following term is defined in iso/iec 29100: 
3.1.2 personally identifiable information (pii) : any information that (a) can be used to identify the pii 
principal to whom such information relates, or (b) is or might be directly or indirectly linked to a pii principal. 
note – to determine whether a pii principal is identifiable, account should be taken of all the means which can reasonably be 
used by the privacy stakeholder holding the data, or by any other party, to identify that natural person. 
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation | international standard 
this recommendation | international standard defines the following terms: 
3.2.1 activity: a specified pursuit or set of tasks. 
3.2.2 cloud service product : a cloud service, allied to the set of business terms under  which the cloud 
service is offered. 
note – business terms can include pricing, rating and service levels. 
3.2.3 functional component: a functional building block needed to engage in an activity (clause 3.2.1), 
backed by an implementation. 
3.2.4 peer cloud service: a cloud service of one cloud service provider which is used as part of a cloud 
service of one or more other cloud service providers. 
