3 xaas  
 
616  
network capabilities can be delivered through any combination of the three types of cloud capabilities. in 
particular, network capabilities could support cloud computing in aspects of interconnection of the csp and 
the csc, topology and route related functionality to share topologies, discovery related functionality to 
perform other services needed by inter -cloud related activities as well as othe r functionalities related to 
monitoring, protection, verification, etc.  
network functionality can be provided as a composite naas service where the naas service consists of more 
than one network functionality services. hierarchically nested naas composite services can also be provided. 
composite naas services could apply for different naas capabilities types provided to csc according to the 
performance objectives expressed in the service level agreement (sla). 
 
figure 6-1 – high-level concept of naas 
appendix ii provides naas use cases in which the three cl oud capabilities types ( i.e., application, platform 
and infrastructure capabilities) are provided to the csc. 
appendix iii provides considerations on the csp's network related activities. 
note 4 – regarding the network connectivity, one important difference between infrastructure as a service (iaas) and 
naas is that iaas is a cloud service category that is offered in only one flavour of cloud capability type, and that is 
infrastructure capabilities type [itu-t y.3500]. however, naas is a cloud service category that can be offered in all three 
cloud capabilities types. 
7 functional requirements of naas application 
this clause provides requirements of naas application derived from the use cases described in appendix ii. 
7.1 performance 
– naas application performance is recommended to be manageable to satisfy the csc's needs. 
– it is recommended that naas csp monitors the utilization and delivery performance of naas 
application. 
– naas applicati on is recommended to be provided to the csc according to the perform ance 
objectives expressed in the sla. 
7.2 operation and management 
– the operation of naas application is required to be manageable and deterministic in accordance 
with the csp operational policies. 
– it is recommended that each naas application be managed  by naas csp efficiently and 
automatically, complying with the csp's common framework of service management and service 
operation management. 

