 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   307 
ii.1 use case 1 – cloud service rebranding 
csp-a wishes to offer browser-based office productivity suite services to their users but does not want to run 
a data centre or build the applications. csp -a resells the office suite services built and operated by csp -d, 
using csp-a branding, ip network connectivity (ic2), and customer management, while csp -d develops and 
maintains the applications and runs the service. 
ii.2 use case 2 – discovery 
csp-a offers a directory service for cloud services to their users. csp-d and csp-c both advertise their cloud 
service offerings into csp -a's directory (ic2). enterprise csc wishes to find a disaster recovery backup 
provider, uses csp-a's directory (ic3) to determine that csp-d offers this service at a good price, and connects 
with csp-d via csp-a's network (ic4) to use the service. 
ii.3 use case 3 – intermediary 
csp-a offers an intermediary service. enterprise csc requests the csp -a to provide hosting of a virtual 
machine (ic3), csp-a determines that csp-d offers the best match of requirements, reserves the resources 
at csp-d and creates the necessary connectivity (ic2). enterprise csc might or might not know the identity 
of csp-d, depending on the requirements of the sla. 
ii.4 use case 4 – platforming 
csp-d develops a cloud computing application to host consumer music collections under their own brand. 
csp-d subscribes to csp -c's paas offering (ic5) and deploys their saas application ont o csp -c's paas. 
consumers connect their devices to csp-a's application, which is actually running at csp-c's datacentre (ic2) 
via virtual private network (vpn). 
ii.5 use case 5 – offloading 
enterprise csc runs an engineering simulation package which requir es significant amounts of computing 
power at infrequent intervals. csc's private cloud does not have sufficient peak capacity to handle this 
effectively, so they have contracted with csp -a to provide additional compute power (ic3). due to the 
success of csc's business, they now need more peak computing power than csp-a can provide from csp-a's 
own cloud data centre, so csp-a reserves additional computing resources from csp-d, handles the load and 
bills csc accordingly. 
ii.6 use case 6 – virtual data centre expansion 
csp-a has encountered resistance to expansion of their cloud data centres due to environmental 
considerations. csp-a therefore orders 1000 new virtual machine (vm) instances from csp-d and establishes 
a vpn bridge such that the new vms appear to be on the same virtual local area network (lan) as used in 
their own data centre. 
ii.7 use case 7 – distributed media 
a broadcaster (csc) will be hosting a major television sporting event series with a global audience and wishes 
to offer both live and on -demand streaming of the event to many types of devices. csc requests csp -a to 
provide global distribution. csp -a establishes connection of the live source feeds to csp -d, which provides 
secure media reformatting as part of their paas offering (ic2), returning digital rights management (drm)-
protected streams/files suitable for playing on many types of devices. csp -a also d evelops a global 
authentication tool and deploys this on paas offerings from other csps worldwide (ic1, ic2). csp-a also books 
capacity in content distribution network (cdn) services worldwide. when the event begins, millions of 
consumer devices are able t o authenticate themselves on their local network provider and stream the 
content from an efficient local source. 
