security 7 
 
  995 
saas software as a service 
sim subscriber identity module 
sla service level agreement 
vm virtual machine 
5 conventions 
in this recommendation: 
the keywords " is required to " indicate a requirement which must be strictly followed and from which no 
deviation is permitted, if conformance to this recommendation is to be claimed. 
the keywords "is recommended" indicate a requirement which is recommended but which is not absolutely 
required. thus, this requirement need not be present to claim conformance. 
the keywords "is prohibited from" indicate a requirement which must be strictly followed and from which 
no deviation is permitted, if conformance to this recommendation is to be claimed. 
the keywords "can optionally" indicate an optional requirement which is permissible, without implying any 
sense of being recommended. this term is not intended to imply that the vendor's implementation m ust 
provide the option, and the feature can be optionally enabled by the network operator/service provider. 
rather, it means the vendor may optionally provide the feature and still claim conformance with the 
specification. 
6 overview 
this recommendation analyses data security requirements for the monitoring service of cloud computing 
including monitoring data scope, monitoring data lifecycle, security threats and challenges, and monitoring 
data security requirements of cloud computing. 
monitoring data scope describes two types of cloud monitoring data: necessary and optional, and also 
explains the use cases. 
monitoring data lifecycle, and the security threats and challenges, describe the content and security threats 
and challenges of clo ud monitoring data collection, storage, use, migration, analysis, presentation, 
destruction and backup. 
monitoring data security requirements describes the detailed requirements for each lifecycle stage of cloud 
monitoring data. 
7 scope of monitoring data for cloud computing 
in a cloud computing environment, there are two types of monitoring data: necessary monitoring data and 
optional monitoring data. 
necessary monitoring data is that which is used to maintain service level agreements (slas). necessary 
monitoring data can help the csp run the cloud computing platform securely and stably. necessary 
monitoring data may include, but is not limited to, management system monitoring data, physical resources 
monitoring data and network monitoring data. necessary monitoring data is mainly used by csps but could 
also be shared with cscs. 
optional monitoring data is that which is provided at the request of the csc to provide the monitoring service 
by the csp. optional monitoring data may include, but is not be limited to, virtual machine monitoring data, 
data storage service monitoring data and the cscs' data associated with the monitoring of their own 
application on cloud. 
