1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
356  
some identified challenges concerning big data in the context of iot are the following [b-chen]: 
− an increasing number of connected things generates huge amounts of data; 
− the generated data are mainly semi-structured or even unstructured; 
− the generated data may have different confidence and precision levels; 
− the generated data are generally not useful until they are adequately "processed" (including pre -
processing, analysis, etc.). 
7.3 security and privacy 
data security and privacy comprise the people, process and technology required to prevent destructive 
forces and unwanted actions [b -ibm]. from a big data perspective, security and privacy requirements are 
magnified by the characteristics of big data. some identified challenges concerning big data in the context of 
security and privacy are the following [b-csa]: 
− secure computations in distributed programing frameworks; 
− secure data storage and transactions logs; 
− end-point input validation/filtering and data provenance; 
− real-time security/compliance monitoring; 
− scalable and composable privacy-preserving data mining and analytics; 
− anonymization and de-identification. 
7.4 software-defined networking 
software-defined networking (sdn) is a set of techniques that enables users to directly program, orchestrate, 
control and manage network resources, which facilitates the design, delivery and operation of network 
services in a dynamic and scalable manner [itu -t y.3300]. by abstracting the underlying infrastructure for 
applications and network services, sdn lets administrators dynamically adjust network -wide traffic flow to 
meet changing needs, while maintaining a global view of the network. 
big data processing requires agile, multi -domain, centrally managed architecture. sdn addresses the 
congestion and lack of scalability of current networks by [b-nec]: 
− allowing for changing traffic patterns; 
− providing functionality to applications that access geographically distributed databases and servers 
through public and private clouds; 
− providing access to bandwidth on demand. 
7.5 deep packet inspection 
deep packet inspection (dpi) is a form of filtering used to inspect data packets sent from one computer to 
another over a network. software -based dpi, provides advanced traffic analysis and multidimensional 
reporting, showing the possibility of making off-the-shelf hardware work at actual line rates. software-based 
dpi can be pervasively deployed in the network, providing much better analysis capabilities, as well as simpler 
mechanisms for deployment, update, testing and scaling to changing workloads [b-itu-t dpi]. 
7.6 big data-driven networking 
big data-driven networking (bddn) is a group of technologies and methods to facilitate network operation, 
administration, maintenance and optimization, etc., based on the big data generated by the network and a 
series of methods and tools. that is to say, big data generated by the network is used to serve the network 
and make the network better. bddn solves this problem by introducing and applying the big data technology 
to the framework of future networks [b-itu-t ddn]. 
