 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   381 
– q19/13 (end-to-end cloud computing management and security) 
 the primary focus of this q uestion is cloud service and infrastructure management and the 
management of composite cloud services and components that use a variety of telecommunication 
and it infrastructure resources. these cloud services are typically composed of individual service 
elements that may be acquired from or exposed to third parties. this is a very complex management 
environment and requires the study of standards that provide the means to enable consistent end-
to-end, multi-cloud management and monitoring of services exposed by and across different service 
providers' domains and technologies. this question also includes the study of security mechanisms 
and methods to streamline and manage service delivery mechanisms across service life cycles so 
that services can be created and delivered efficiently. the second focus of this question is big data 
governance including data management, data preservation, as well as life-cycle management of big 
data to provide the necessary overall frameworks, definitions and ecosystems includi ng 
requirements, capabilities related to the integration or support of the big data model and 
technologies in telecommunication ecosystems. 
7.1.2 itu-t sg17 
itu-t study group 17 (sg17) coordinates security-related work across all itu-t study groups. often working 
in cooperation with other standards development organizations (sdos) and various ict industry consortia, 
sg17 deals with a broad range of standardization issues. 
to give a few examples, sg17 is currently working on cybersecurity; security managemen t; security 
architectures and frameworks; countering spam; identity management; the protection of personally 
identifiable information; and the security of applications and services for the internet of things (iot), smart 
grids, smartphones, software -defined networking (sdn), web services, big data analytics, social networks, 
cloud computing, mobile financial systems, iptv and telebiometrics. 
one key reference for security standards in use today is recommendation itu -t x.509 for electronic 
authentication over public networks. recommendation itu-t x.509, a cornerstone in designing applications 
relating to public key infrastructure (pki), is used in a wide range of applications; from securing the 
connection between a browser and a server on the web, to providin g digital signatures that enable 
e-commerce transactions to be conducted with the same confidence as in a traditional system. without wide 
acceptance of the standard, the rise of e-business would have been impossible. 
cybersecurity remains high on sg17's a genda. additionally, sg17 is coordinating security standardization 
work covering combating counterfeit and mobile device theft, imt-2020, cloud-based event data technology, 
e-health, open identity trust framework, radio frequency identification (rfid), and child online protection. 
7.1.3 itu-t sg5 
itu-t study group 5 (sg5) is responsible for studies on methodologies for evaluating ict effects on climate 
change and publishing guidelines for using icts in an eco -friendly way. under its environmental mandate, 
sg5 is also responsible for studying design methodologies to reduce icts and e -waste's adverse 
environmental effects, for example, through the recycling of ict facilities and equipment. 
in addition to its climate-focused activities, the itu-t recommendations, handbooks and other publications 
produced by sg5 have four main objectives. the first is to protect telecommunication equipment and 
installations against damage and malfunction due to electromagnetic disturbances, such as those from 
lightning. in this field, sg5 is one of the world's most experienced and respected standardization bodies. 
the second is to ensure the safety of personnel and users of networks against current and voltages used in 
telecommunication networks. the third is to avoid health risks from electromagnetic fields (emfs) produced 
by telecommunication devices and installations. the fourth is to guarantee a good quality of service (qos) 
for high -speed data services by providing requirements on characteristics of copper cables and on the 
coexistence of services delivered by different providers. 
