3 xaas  
 
670  
resources offered by the naas csp to the naas csc depend on the type of naas  service 
(e.g., naas connectivity, naas applications as described in [itu -t y.3512]) being provided by the naas csp. 
these resources can be negotiated by the naas csc with the naas csp through the use of the service interface 
provided by the naas csp. for example, subject of such negotiation can cover connectivity parameters for a 
naas connectivity service provided by the naas csp. 
service requests made by the naas csc via the service interface will trigger interactions with other naas 
csp's functionalities such as evolved real -time oss functionalities (see clause 7.7) and naas csp 's resource 
functionalities (e.g., network elements), for example for instantiating network services, network functions, 
for allocating cloud comput ing resources and network connec tivity resources in naas  csp's infrastructure. 
the service interface can also allow the naas csc to instantiate and operate flexible, scalable and functionally 
expandable virtualized networks as well as provide unified control and management functionalitie s to the 
naas csc for changing, moving, or removing resources associated to such virtualized networks being offered 
by the naas csp. 
6.3 virtualization of network functions 
as described in [itu-t y.3512], naas services include: 
– naas application and naas platform services such as virtual ip multimedia subsystem (vims), virtual 
evolved packet core (vepc) and virtual content delivery network (vcdn); 
– naas connectivity services such as virtual private network (vpn) services and bandwidth on demand. 
these naa s services rely on network services (see clause 3.2. 3) and network functions (see clause  3.2.2) 
provided on -demand by the naas csp to the naas csc. when deployable as software by the naas csp, 
network functions are known as virtualized network functions (vnfs) (see clause 3.2.5). examples of such 
vnfs are virtualized control network entities (see [itu-t y.2320]). when implemented via a tightly coupled 
software and hardware system, network functions are considered as physical network funct ions (pnfs ) 
(see clause 3.2.4). 
figure 6-2 provides a representation of aspects that need to be controlled and managed by naas csp. 
 
figure 6-2 – aspects managed by naas csp 
naas services offered to naas cscs are based on nss and network functions (nfs) that need to be managed 
by the naas csp. although not illustrated in figure 6-2, connectivity between nfs needs also to be managed 
by the naas csp, including connectivity between nfs in a given ns and connectivity between different nss. 

