 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   287 
in figure 8-1, intra-cloud service and resource handling allows a csp (a or b) to manage its own resources 
including underlying physical resources and abstracted resources. inter-cloud service and resource handling 
allows a csp to negotiate for the use of peer csps' abstracted resources provided as cloud services. 
for example, when csp a decides to use resources from csp b, its intra-cloud service and resource handling 
will interact with its inter-cloud service and resource handling, which will then interact with csp b. when the 
inter-cloud service and resource handling of csp b receives the request from csp  a, the request will be 
relayed towards its own intra -cloud service and resource handling in order for csp b to decide whether to 
provide the service and associated abstracted resources to the csp a. 
8.2 overview of inter-cloud federation 
8.2.1 introduction 
in the inter-cloud federation pattern, a number of csps provide services to cscs. when  needed (e.g., in the 
event of a serious shortage in resource pool) , csps within the inter -cloud federation utilize other csps' 
resources to provide services to their customers. 
figure 8-2 illustrates the inter-cloud federation pattern. 
y .3511(14)_f8-2
csp a
inter-cloud federation
service xcsc 1
service y
csc 2
csc 3 service z
csp c
csp b
csp e csp d
 
figure 8-2 – inter-cloud federation 
as shown in figure 8-2, csc 1 and csc 2 use services x and y provided by csp a, but the resources used for 
services x and y may actually be provided by csps b, c or e. 
8.2.2 primary csp and secondary csp 
in an inter -cloud federation, two or more csps inter act to provide cloud services to cscs. the csp that is 
responsible for providing the services to a given csc is called the primary csp while the peer csps in the inter-
cloud federation offering their own resources as services to the primary csp are called secondary csps. 
when needed, the primary csp will make request in order to utilize the resources of secondary csps. the 
primary csp determines which secondary csps will actually provide such resources (e.g.,  in terms of 
processing power, storage and networks) to the csc. in some cases, the primary csp may provide none of its 
own resources and will have to obtain all resources required for the support of services from secondary csps. 
the roles of primary csp and secondary csp depend on the individual service . for example, in figures 8 -3 
and 8-4, csp a is the primary csp and csps b, c and e are secondary csps for services x and y. for service z, 
csp e is the primary csp and csps a and d are secondary csps. 
