cloud computing management 2 
 
  439 
10.3 functionalities for cloud service management 
this clause identifies cloud service management functionalities including service fulfilment, service assurance 
and service repository functionalities. the detailed functionalities for service management are presented in 
figure 10-4. 
note – "service order management " corresponds to the process of taking, organizing, tracking and satisfying csc 
requests for cloud services provided by a csp. 
 
figure 10-4 – functionalities related to cloud service management 
10.3.1  service fulfilment functionalities 
this covers a set of functionalities for the fulfilment of cloud services. these functionalities include service 
order management. 
10.3.1.1 service order management 
service order management provides a set of functionalities for the management of cloud services considering 
csc requirements (e.g., cloud sla). this set includes the following functionalities: 
1) service order orchestration and distribution. this functionality provides for orchestration across 
service order management. it decomposes a cloud service order into resource order requests, and 
then distributes each request to provision the service order. it also provides the functi onality 
necessary to track and manage these distributed requests, e.g. , tracks the various resource orders 
until completed, sequences resource order provisioning if required, provides status on the overall 
service order; 
2) service assign. this functionality determines the availability of facilities required to support a service; 
3) service order tracking and lifecycle management. this functionality issues valid and complete service 
orders, and stores the service order into an appropriate repository; 
4) service order establishment. this functionality establishes a complete and valid service order. it 
validates the cloud service order request according to the service catalogue and installed base, and 
to provisioning rules. it also validates that the cloud service specified on the service order is available 
and feasible from the csp platform/infrastructure point of view; 

