xaas 3 
 
  741 
applications consist of static security features when applications are in idle status and of dynamic security 
features when applications are running. 
8.2 security requirements of csp 
besides common security requirements, csp has  specific security requirement s in the saas application 
environment. 
8.2.1 availability 
for csp, the saas application environment is required to ensure that cscs are in service all the time, which 
requires the handling of hardware/software failures, denial of service attacks, etc. it is essential to ensure 
the minimal downtime for cscs. 
8.2.2 service interoperability/portability guarantee 
when csc wants to migrate all or a part of its system to another csp, the original csp require s the saas 
application envi ronment to provide service inte roperability and portability guarantee to minimize the 
damage to csc's business. besides,  the saas application environment  is required to guarantee that the 
related data will be deleted permanently on the previous csp and will not be recovered by any other party. 
8.2.3 software assets protection 
software assets (such as applications, application -internal data, scripts, macros, function code library, 
software license, etc.) are required to be protected in the saas application environment. 
csp requires the saas application environment to  protect the confidentiality and integrity of any software 
assets provided by csp or csn, which implies that these software assets cannot be copied, misappropriated, 
tampered with, given away, or otherwise used in an unauthorized manner. 
8.2.4 legal compliance 
though csp can use dat a backup and redundancy mechanisms to ensure csc's data reliability, the saas 
application environment is required to ensure that data copies shall not be retained for longer time than the 
permitted data retention period under the applicable data protection law. 
8.2.5 security verification for source codes 
as in the saas application environment, csn may provide the applications' codes, content or software to csp, 
the saas application environment is required to provide mechanisms that assist csp to verify the codes and 
to prevent malicious codes. 
8.3 security requirements of csn 
in the saas application environment, csn can be an application developer, content provider, software 
provider, system integrator and auditor. besides common security requirements, csn has its own security 
requirements in the saas application environment.  
8.3.1 audit security 
when csn is an auditor, the saas application environment is required to provide mechanisms that assist csn 
to collect audit events, logging and reporting information at the granularity of tenant and application. these 
information are used to assure that csp's service complies with governmental regulatory requirements and 
legal agreements contracted with tenants . the saas application environment  is also required to  provide 
mechanisms that assist csn to ensure that the information collected and reported by the audit components 
within the csp system are correct and not subject to tampering or manipulation. 
besides, the saas application environment is required to provide the capability for csn to record the changes 
of important data and monitor the data availability online, in order to sen d a security alarm in time and 
therefore reduce losses. 
