5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
884  
7 computing service interoperability testing between the csc and csp 
computing service interoperability testing between the csc and csp valuates the interaction between the 
csc and csp for computing service and related management functions, which include vm configuration, vm 
migration, vm snapshot, vm clone, vm time synchronization, vm reservation, vm image, vm template, vm 
scaling, vm backup, life cycle management of the vm and physical machine, and vm and physical machine 
configuration inquiring. for a description of related functional requirements refer to [itu-t y.3513]. 
7.1 interoperability testing of vm configuration between the csc and csp 
the test object of vm configuration is to verify that the csc configures the vm with processors, hard disks, 
memory and nic parameters. the test case of vm configuration can be found in appendix ii.1.1. 
7.2 interoperability testing of vm migration between the csc and csp 
the test object of vm migration is to verify that the csc migrates the vm from a particular host to another 
host. the test case of vm migration can be found in appendix ii.1.2. 
7.3 interoperability testing of vm snapshot between the csc and csp 
the test object of vm snapshot is to verify that the csc captures the state (vm memory, settings, and virtual 
disks) of the vm by taking snapshots of it and rolling back to the previous vm state when needed. the  test 
case of vm snapshot can be found in appendix ii.1.3. 
7.4 interoperability testing of vm clone between the csc and csp 
the test object of vm clone is to verify that the csc clones a particular vm and the cloned vm has identical 
configuration and csp/csc data as the original one. the test case of vm clone can be found in appendix ii.1.4. 
7.5 interoperability testing of vm time synchronization between the csc and csp 
the test object of vm time synchronization is to verify that the csc sets vm time synchronization manually 
or automatically. the test case of vm time synchronization can be found in appendix ii.1.5. 
7.6 interoperability testing of vm reservation between the csc and csp 
the test object of vm reservation is to verify that the csc  reserves available computing resources (cpu, 
memory) for particular vm before it is initiated . the test case of vm reservation can be found in appendix 
ii.1.6. 
7.7 interoperability testing of vm image between the csc and csp 
the test object of vm image is to verify that the csc  creates a new vm by vm image, which consists of 
infrastructure configuration and csp data, csc data or both. the test case of vm image can be found in 
appendix ii.1.7. 
7.8 interoperability testing of vm template between the csc and csp 
the test object of vm template is to verify that the csc  creates vms by vm template, including the open 
virtualization format (ovf). the test case of vm template can be found in appendix ii.1.8. 
7.9 interoperability testing of vm scaling between the csc and csp 
the test object of vm scaling is to verify that the csc changes the scale of vms dynamically based on the 
scaling policies and monitored events of the vm; this includes configuration change (e.g., cpu, memory, 
network bandwidth increased or decreased) and components change (new vm added or removed). the test 
case of vm scaling can be found in appendix ii.1.9. 
