7 security  
 
1030 
8.5 security configuration management 
security configuration includes security rules configured in the cloud platform, network, virtual machines and 
various application components. it is different from a high -level security policy, which sets out the 
organization's approach to achieve its information security objectives. 
csps should execute the integrated security configuration management to provide efficient implementation 
and fast deployment of the security configuration. 
in security configuration management, it is suggested that csps  set security policy configuration templates 
and security configuration policy baselines . furthermore, csps should take measures to ensure the 
consistency and efficiency of security configuration when cloud environment changes and to isolate the 
security configuration between cscs in a multi-tenancy environment. 
security configuration templates include main templates of security configuration that the current cloud 
computing environment needs, such as account management, authentication, access control policies, audit 
policies, dynamic response policies, application and software update policies, backup and recovery policies, etc. 
security configuration baselines provide a criterion for the security configuration requirements of the entire 
cloud computing environment,  which can help csps evaluate whether the current security configuration 
meets the fundamental security level or not, and further provide detailed guidance to reinforcement.  the 
categories of security configuration baselines should include but are not limited to the following: os security 
configuration baselines, database security configuration baselines, firewall security configuration baselines, 
switch security configuration baselines, router security configuration baselines, etc. 
security configuration management involves the following measures: 
1) security configuration template management 
 csps should set the main security templates for the demands of cloud environment to make security 
configuration deployment faster and more convenient. security config uration template 
management should support customized templates, update and optimize templates continuously 
according to the changes of cloud platform, network status, service requirements, and so on. 
 furthermore, csps should provide cscs with the capability to customize new security configuration 
templates according to their own requirements . additionally, cscs should be responsible for the 
effectiveness of the security configuration which they customized. 
2) security configuration process management 
 csps should testify the effectiveness of the security configuration. security configuration can be 
configured according to cscs' and cloud services' requirements. the main process of security 
configuration management involve s configuration request, configuration approval, testing and 
technical validation, implementing, configuration archiving and output report. 
3) security configuration baseline management 
 csps should develop security configuration baseline by comprehensively considering the security 
requirements of cloud computing platform, cloud service, cscs, the security clause of sla, etc. 
 the main process of security configuration baseline management involve s security configuration 
checking request and record, approval, checking implementing, checking report output, 
reinforcement implementing, and reinforcement report output. security conf iguration checking 
should be executed periodically during daily operations, and can be implemented through 
configuration collecting and baseline security analysis. 
4) security configuration conflict management 
 in a resource sharing cloud environment, due to faults caused by either the security administrator 
or by other reason s, the security configuration might be compromised which may result in 
vulnerabilities in the cloud computing environment. csps should implement efficient measures to 
detect security c onfiguration conflicts, and establish  a security configuration conflict handling 
process and retrieval mechanisms. 
 the handling process of security configuration conflict should involve conflict alarm, conflict analysis 
(which includes reasons and influences analysis), conflict handling and output report. 
