cloud computing management 2 
 
  477 
3.1.6 cloud service provider [itu-t y.3500]: party which makes cloud services available. 
3.1.7 cloud service user [itu-t y.3500]: natural person, or entity acting on their behalf, associated with a 
cloud service customer that uses cloud services. 
note – examples of such entities include devices and applications. 
3.1.8 emergency telecommunications (et) [ b-itu-t y.2205]: et means any emergency related service 
that requires special handling from the ngn relative to other services. this includes government authorized 
emergency services and public safety services. 
3.1.9 emergency telecommunication service (ets) [b-itu-t e.107]: a national service providing priori ty 
telecommunications to the ets authorized users in times of disaster and emergencies. 
3.1.10 inter-cloud computing [itu-t y.3511]: the paradigm for enabling the interworking between two or 
more cloud service providers. 
3.1.11 management system [b-itu-t m.60]: a system with the capability and authority to exercise control 
over and/or collect management information from another system. 
3.1.12 service level agreement [itu-t y.3500]: documented agreement between the service provider and 
customer that identifies services and service targets. 
note 1 – a service level agreement can also be established between the service provider and a supplier, an i nternal 
group or a customer acting as a supplier. 
note 2 – a service level agreement can be included in a contract or another type  of documented agreement. 
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation 
this recommendation defines the following term: 
3.2.1 resource management: the most efficient and effective  way to access, control, manage, deploy, 
schedule and bind resources when they are provided by service providers and requested by customers. 
4 abbreviations and acronyms 
this recommendation uses the following abbreviations and acronyms: 
3g  third generation 
4g  fourth generation 
bss  business support system 
cdn  content delivery network 
crm  customer relationship management 
csc  cloud service customer 
csp  cloud service provider 
et  emergency telecommunications 
ets  emergency telecommunication service 
fi  functional interface 
ip  internet protocol 
it  information technology 
lan  local area network 
lte  long term evolution  
mpls  multi-protocol label switching 
ngn  next generation network 
