security 7 
 
  1069 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
the cloud service customer should include the cloud 
service provider as a type of supplier in its information 
security policy for supplier relationships. this will help 
to mitigate risks associated with the cloud service 
provider's access to and management of the cloud 
service customer data. 
(no additional implementation guidance) 
15.1.2 addressing security within supplier agreements 
control 15.1.2 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
the cloud service customer should confirm the 
information security roles and responsibilities relating to 
the cloud service, as described in the service agreement. 
these can include the following processes: 
– malware protection; 
– backup; 
– cryptographic controls; 
– vulnerability management; 
– incident management; 
– technical compliance checking; 
– security testing; 
– auditing; 
– collection, maintenance and protection of evidence, 
including logs and audit trails; 
– protection of information upon termination of the 
service agreement; 
– authentication and access control; 
– identity and access management. 
the cloud service provider should specify as part of an 
agreement the relevant information security measures 
that the cloud service provider will implement to ensure 
no misunderstanding between the cloud service 
provider and cloud service customer. 
the relevant information security measures that the 
cloud service provider will implement can vary based on 
the type of cloud service the cloud service customer is 
using. 
15.1.3 information and communication technology supply chain 
control 15.1.3 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
(no additional implementation guidance) if a cloud service provider uses cloud services of peer 
cloud service providers, the cloud service provider 
should ensure information security levels to its own 
cloud service customers are maintained or exceeded. 
when the cloud service provider provides cloud services 
based on a supply chain, the cloud service provider 
should provide information security objectives to 
suppliers, and request each of the suppliers to perform 
risk management activities to achieve the objectives. 
