intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  895 
ii.1.11 test case: vm life cycle management 
table ii.11 shows the test case for vm life cycle management. 
table ii.11 – test case: vm life cycle management 
vm life cycle management test description  
test purpose  to verify that the csc manages the vm with various operations including start, 
shutdown, restart, suspend and resume vm. 
reference  [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.1.2 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc shuts down a vm which has its power on.  
2 check the state of the vm is power off.  
3 stimulus the csc starts the vm.  
4 check the state of the vm is power on.  
5 stimulus the csc restarts the vm.  
6 check the state of the vm is power on.  
7 stimulus the csc suspends the vm, tries to log in vm's operating 
system through ssh, vnc or other tools provided by the csp. 
 
8 check the state of the vm is suspended and vm's activity is paused. 
the csc cannot log in the vm's operating system through 
ssh, vnc or other tools. 
 
9 stimulus the csc resumes the vm, then checks the power states of 
the vm, tries to log in vm's operating system through ssh, 
vnc or other tools provided by the csp. 
 
10 check the state of the vm is power on and the vm's activity is 
consistent with the moment before suspend operation.  
 
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
ii.1.12 test case: physical machine life cycle management 
table ii.12 shows the test case for physical machine life cycle management. 
table ii.12 – test case: physical machine life cycle management 
physical machine life cycle management test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc manages a physical machine with various operations including 
start, shutdown, hibernate and wakeup. 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.1.1 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc shuts down a physical machine which has its power 
on. 
 
2 check the state of the physical machine is power off.  
3 stimulus the csc starts the physical machine.   
4 check the state of the physical machine is power on.  
5 stimulus the csc hibernates a physical machine which is in power on 
state. 
 
6 check the state of the physical machine is hibernate.  
