cloud computing management 2 
 
  445 
appendix i 
 
illustration on e2e cloud computing management in practice 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
i.1 introduction 
this appendix provides an illustration of how a cloud compu ting management system ca n function in 
practice, following the conceptual view and common model described in clauses 8 and 9. 
i.2 vertical vs horizontal management 
this recommendation describes both vertical relationships within a bss/oss, as shown in figure 8-1, as well 
as horizontal relationships between csps within each managed layer, as shown in clause 9. 
both vertical and horizontal interfaces are implemented as smis, however those vertical interfaces between 
management layers within a single csp's system are likely to be implementation-specific. 
i.3 orchestrated management actions 
for realising e2e cloud computing management, orchestration is required at multiple levels. in each case, 
this comprises the creation or management of multiple managed objects as a means to implement a higher 
layer construct. while orchestration can occur directly in the service layer (for example, the creation of a 
virtual machine (vm) within an infrastructure as a service (iaas) service may automatically cause the creation 
of associated storage obje cts required to support the vm), this can also occur at higher layers of the 
management system. the following example (see clause i.5) is an illustration of such a case. 
i.4 monitoring and diagnostics 
smi interfaces can also be used for monitoring and diagnostics within a single cloud computing system and 
this can then be extended into a multi -cloud scenario (as described in [itu -t y.3520]). this allows for 
aggregated performance measurement, reporting, fault detection, and root cause analysis across multip le 
cloud services. 
i.5 example of e2e cloud computing management 
for this example, consider the creation of a video streaming service, designed to deliver training content to 
a number of enterprise customers. 
a cloud service pro vider is offering a product "video streaming platform" to its customers. this product 
provides: 
1) a storage platform (library) for holding video content, including content management, cataloguing, 
metadata management; 
2) a video-ingestion service, where content in various video formats can be uploaded for transcoding 
before being placed in the library; 
3) a subscription management system, including digital rights management, subscription, payment, 
authorization, and billing; 
4) service usage monitoring, including statistics, trends, and user behaviour; 
5) managed network connectivity, both for uploading content to the cloud, and for efficient streaming 
of the content through a content delivery network and thus to end users. 
the enterprise wishing to buy thi s bundle of services needs o nly to place a single product order, which will 
include various choices for capacity, throughput, etc. 
figure i.1 illustrates e2e cloud computing management in practice. 
