cloud computing management 2 
 
  465 
3.1.9 telecommunication service  [b-itu-t m.60]: that which is offered by an administration to its 
customers in order to satisfy a specific telecommunication requirement. 
note – bearer service and teleservice are types of telecommunication service. other types o f telecommunication 
service may be identified in the future. 
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation 
this recommendation defines the following term: 
3.2.1 tc-hybrid service : the service which consists of both telecommunication and cloud service 
components. 
4 abbreviations and acronyms 
this recommendation uses the following abbreviations and acronyms: 
csp  cloud service provider 
ct  communications technology 
e2e  end-to-end 
it  information technology 
kpi  key performance indicator 
kqi  key quality indicator 
smi  service management interface 
5 conventions 
the keywords " is required to" indicate a requirement which must be strictly followed and from which no 
deviation is permitted if conformance to this document is to be claimed. 
the keywords "is recommended" indicate a requirement which is recommended but which is not absolutely 
required. thus this requirement need not be present to claim conformance. 
in the body of this recommendation and its annexes, the words shall, shall not, should, and may sometimes 
appear, in which case they are to be interpreted, respectively, as is req uired to, is prohibited from, is 
recommended, and can optionally. the appearance of such phrases or keywords in an appendix or in material 
explicitly marked as informative is to be interpreted as having no normative intent. 
6 overview 
as an important part of telecommunication management, service management implements all of the 
functionalities necessary for the management and operations of communications and information services 
required by or proposed to customers. 
it includes service fulfilment, service assurance and service billing through the lifecycle of the service: 
– service fulfilment: to fulfil the resource capacity and service quality requirements of customers, 
maintain the readine ss of the resource and service capacity, provide function and interf ace to 
customers for the access and consumption of service; 
– service assurance: to support the function and process of service assurance, includes service level 
management, service incide nt and problem management, service monitoring and reporting 
management; 
– service billing: to support the function and process of service billing. 
