2 cloud computing management  
 
428  
5 conventions 
none. 
6 introduction 
in both telecommunication and cloud computing environments, management refers to the ability of 
maintaining visibility and control of all the managed resources in delivering a service to the customer and 
satisfying the negotiated service level agreement (sla). however, until now, these approaches have been 
different. 
for the management of telecommunication services and networks, telecommunication operators (as well as 
other stakeholders in the telecommunication industry) have applied the mature telecommunications 
management network (tmn) principles and enhanced telecom operations map (etom) as a standard 
framework and technologies. this has led to the construction of a set of management systems (e.g., element 
management system (ems),  network management system (nms), business support system (bss) or 
operational support system (oss)) to realize the required telecommunication management functions. 
with the convergence of information technology (it) and communications technology (ct) industries, cloud 
computing is being adopted in telecommunication infrastructures. telecommunication operat ors are now 
delivering various cloud services to their users in addition to applying cloud computing technologies for the 
optimization of their telecommunication service platforms and telecommunication support systems. 
cloud computing has a different manag ement approach in that it does not expose individual elements of 
itself to the telecommunications management system. rather, a cloud computing system incorporates its 
own sophist icated management functionality, which is able to manage the cloud computing s ystem in a 
coherent manner. therefore, cloud computing does not distinguish between management operations carried 
out on behalf of the customer, and identical management operatio ns carried out on behalf of the network 
operator. rather, cloud computing defi nes the role of cloud service customer (csc) and sub -role of cloud 
service user (csu), both of which can be performed by end -customers and telecommunication operators 
alike. 
this recommendation addresses the need to bring these two very different approaches together. 
it is important to note that the creation and use of many cloud -based virtual resources and services are no 
longer treated as traditional "management" activities, but by the nature of cloud computing are regularly 
performed in an on-demand self-service manner by cscs who do not require "management" credentials for 
this task. as an analogy, many of these tasks are therefore closer to placing telephone calls than to managing 
telephony equipment. 
many cloud computing use cases extend across multiple cloud service providers (csps) and multiple services. 
csps engaged in such a multiple cloud ecosystem therefore , are required to implement appropriate 
management capabilities on the inter -cloud interfaces [itu -t y.3511] to other csps. in such a scenario,  a 
single co mpany may be simultaneously acting as a csp for its own customers, as a csc for the services 
provided by another csp, and as a csc of its own csp services. 
in a virtualized environment, a csp focuses on monitoring e2e network and application pe rformance and 
needs the ability to dynamically add or remove resources when performance requirements change. 
considering the addition of multiple technology domains involved, e2e management must cover both 
virtualized and physical infrastructures across potentially multiple csps. 
in a multiple cloud environment, the e2e management means composition of: 
a) service and resource management chains across: 
i) layers; 
ii) multiple csps. 
b) service and resource management chains which may include: 
i) the csc; 
