1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
166  
table i.10 – a use case of cloud service control status validation 
title a use case for cloud service control status validation in cloud service brokerage. 
description this use case describes a validation of legitimate service status after a csn: cloud service 
broker made a request for an action (e.g., create, pause, resume, or restart) to change service 
status on behalf of a csc. since a csp and a csn: cloud service broker are not tightly coupled, 
the csn: cloud service broker does not know the result of the control request instantly. so, a 
csn: cloud service broker needs to keep checking status of service by communicating with the 
csp until the csn: cloud service broker  verifies whether the control request is correctly 
performed or not. 
(1) on behalf of the csc, the csn: cloud service broker makes a control request (e.g., create, 
pause, resume, restart, or terminate) to the csp who is hosting the service. 
(2) the requested csp sends an acknowledgement to the csn: cloud service broker for the 
service control request and starts to control a service accordingly. 
(3) after the csn: cloud service broker receives the acknowledgement, the csn: cloud 
service broker sets a time window to wait and periodically verify the service status. the 
csn: cloud service determines an efficient period to repeat a communication with the 
csp to get information on the latest service status.  
(4) the csn: cloud service broker verifies that the current service status complies with the 
ideal service status by the request from the csc. the csn: cloud service broker keeps 
communicating with the csp until the service status becomes ideal status or error status, 
or a certain deadline is over. 
(5) finally, through the workspace, the csn: cloud service broker notifies the result of service 
control to the csc. 
roles/sub-roles csp, csn: cloud service broker, csc 
figure 
 
pre-conditions 
(optional) 
the csp has an account for accessing csb workspace. 
the csc has an account for accessing csb workspace. 
the csc selected a cloud service to utilize. 
csn: cloud service broker and csc established a sla. 

