 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   283 
in the body of this recommendation and its appendices, the words should, and may sometimes appear, in 
which case they are to be interpreted, respectively, as is recommended, and can optionally. the appearance 
of such phrases or keywords in an appendix or i n material explicitly marked as informative are to be 
interpreted as having no normative intent. 
6 introduction 
inter-cloud computing describes the interworking of cloud service providers (csps) in order to deliver services 
for the users. inter-cloud relationship between csps can be realized by using a service from the peer csp or 
by providing a service to the peer csp. 
the case where two peer csps interact with each other through an inter -cloud relationship is illustrated in 
figure 6-1. as shown by a pair of two arrows pointing in opposite directions in figure 6-1, csp a is making 
use of the services provided by csp b. in this relationship, csp a is considered as being the primary csp while 
csp b is the secondary csp. note that the reverse situation where csp b is using the services offered by csp 
a may also exist and in such case csp a and csp b are involved in two inter -cloud relationships, one for 
providing services to the peer csp and the other for using the services of the peer csp. 
y .3511(14)_f6-1
p
s
p s
primary csp in the inter-cloud relationship
secondary csp in the inter-cloud relationship
provide service to
csp a csp buse service from
inter-cloud relationship
 
figure 6-1 – inter-cloud relationship between peer csps 
figure 6-2 illustrates in a different way the inter-cloud relationship between csp a and csp b, i.e., csp a uses 
the service of csp b through the application programming interface (api) provided by csp b, shown as api 
(b). although the arrow in figure 6-2 is only one and is shown as unidirectional from csp a to csp b, it should 
be understood as being equivalent to the inter-cloud relationship shown in figure 6-1, i.e., covering the "use 
service from" and "provide service to" arrows in figure 6-1. 
y .3511(14)_f6-2
p
s
api (x):
p s
primary csp
secondary csp
api provided by csp x
csp a csp b
api (b)
inter-cloud relationship
 
 
figure 6-2 – inter-cloud relationship using api 
