security 7 
 
  1025 
7.2.2.3 emergency response 
csps should provide a hotline service number to provide a fault reporting service, available 5*8 or 7*24. 
additionally, the service indicators should include failure acceptance time, troubleshooting time, and so on. 
7.2.2.4 security measures 
csps should provide appropriate security measures for the whole cloud computing infrastructure. 
1) measures on computing virtualization 
 csps should impleme nt available measures to provide flow inspection, virtual firewall or other 
security features in the hypervisor layer, which can keep the behaviour of intra -virtual machines 
(vms) visible and controlled by administrators. 
2) network and domain isolation 
 csps should implement network and domain isolation measures, such as firewall, access control list 
(acl) policies in routers, and domain controllers to keep strict isolation of different cscs. 
3) privileged access 
 csps should implement measures, such as just in time (jit) access, to ensure privileged access. 
4) authentication 
 csps should implement strong authentication methods, such as multi -factor authentication, 
fingerprint authentication, etc., to reinforce the security of the authentication. 
5) measures to secure network traffic 
 csps should implement available measures to resist denial of service (dos)/distributed denial of 
service (ddos) attacks and circumvent network congestion, deploy intrusion detection or 
prevention systems to resist network intrusion. 
6) measures against malware 
 csps should implement available measures to prevent infection by malware or virus. 
7) patch upgrade 
 csps should regularly implement patch upgrade and version upgrade for the virtualization software, 
the operating system and database (db) to keep them up to date. 
7.2.2.5 security audit 
csps should carry out regular security audits over the whole cloud computing system. the audit can be 
executed by an internal independent audit team or third -party auditors (acting as cloud service partners 
(csns)). the audit results should be appropriately visible to cscs. 
7.2.2.6 security monitoring for improving sla 
csps should provide a mechanism to monitor the quantitative parameters of services to improve sla. 
1) monitoring objects 
 define the monitoring objects, such as the central processing unit (cpu) utilization, security 
warnings, and so on. the trigger condition should also be explicitly indicated. 
2) security event notification 
 the mode and time of security event  notification should be stipulated. the notification mode 
includes e -mail, telephone, short messages or other ways negotiated by csps and cscs. the 
notification time means the average time from the event occurrence to notifying csc. 
 csps may provide appro priate capabilities for cscs such as service -level self -monitoring and 
automatic supervision of the resources allocated to them. 
7.2.2.7 security certification 
csps should be responsible for the acquisition of relevant security certifications, and they sho uld regularly 
update these certifications to meet the requirements of cscs. 
the engineers and other csp staff should take security training courses and should be qualified for the 
operations of the cloud computing platform. 
