 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   271 
appendix ii 
 
considerations on resource monitoring 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
this appendix provides considerations on resource monitoring. 
ii.1 health monitoring 
health monitoring of the cloud infrastructure includes monitoring the status of resources such as the physical 
server hardware, hypervisor, virtual machine, physical and virtual network switches and routers and storage 
systems. 
a resource map displays all of the technology components, including transactions, applications, web servers, 
network switches, virtualized components and third -party cloud services. having such a map can play an 
important role in effective business service management because when there is an application or transaction 
problem, it can help pinpoint the infrastructure components that may be playing a role in service disruptions. 
in addition, the resource map is important to provide run-time monitoring, because cloud infrastructure is 
constantly changing. it is necessary to ensure the management of this resource map  on a continuous basis. 
non-intrusive probes can be used to automatically detect infrastructure, application and transaction changes 
in near real-time. 
ii.2 performance monitoring 
basic performance monitoring looks at the cpu, memory, storage and network p erformance metrics from 
the vm guest os, as well as from the hypervisor. these metrics typically get monitored even in non-virtualized 
environments. the virtualization-specific metrics could be for specific entities that are introduced by various 
virtualization technologies. the behaviour of other virtualization features can also be measured as metrics, 
such as how frequently vm migrations are occurring or when other availability features are engaged. then 
there are specialized applications built by virtualization, for example, desktop virtualization. monitoring for 
such solutions needs more parameters to be collected from the vm, as well as the hypervisor, for example, 
how quickly vms are provisioned to a requesting end user. 
ii.3 capacity monitoring 
resource utilization is continuously evolving. therefore, the continuous planning of various resources such 
as servers, desktops, networks, storage and also many kinds of software is needed. this demands periodic 
audits of physical and virtual resources. capacit y monitoring needs end-to-end continuous capacity 
monitoring of the following key metrics: 
• server utilization : peak and average server resource utilization, memory, cpu, resource, server 
bottlenecks and correlation with a number of vms. 
• memory usage: memory utilization on each server, capacity bottlenecks and relationship with a 
number of vms and with different cloud services. 
• network usage : peak and average network utilization, capacity/bandwidth bottlenecks and 
relationship with a number of vms and with different cloud services. 
• storage utilization : overall storage capacity metrics, vm and virtual disk utilization, i/o 
performance metrics, snapshot monitoring and correlation with a number of vms and with different 
cloud services. 
ii.4 security and compliance monitoring 
virtualization introduces a new set of security risks due to vm sprawl and the introduction of new threat 
targets such as the hypervisor layer, virtual infrastructure ( vi) configurations and potential conflicts in the 
way access control is managed and policies are applied. security and compliance monitoring becomes critical 
