intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  849 
another approach to implement reputation-based trust evaluation is shown in figure 6-2. it is a centralized 
framework which has one or some independent trust evaluation systems operated by a third-party operator. 
with this approach, csps do not have their own trust evaluation  system; they only provide their first -hand 
reputation information to the centralized trust evaluation system and query the trust values of csps from 
the centralized trust evaluation  system when they need it. in this approach, the trust evaluation system 
calculates the trust value for csps only base d on second-hand reputation information provided by csps in 
the inter-cloud. therefore, an efficient mechanism for protecting against unfair ratings is more important in 
this approach. 
 
figure 6-2 – another approach to implement reputation-based trust management 
6.4 cloud service evaluation framework 
the reputation of a csp is highly correlated with the evaluation of cloud services it provides. a  csc could 
compare and evaluate cloud services through the cloud sla provided by the csp. a cloud sla is a part of the 
cloud service agreement (csa) that includes cloud service level objectives (slos) and cloud service qualitative 
objectives (sqos) for the covered cloud service. an slo is a commitment a csp makes for a specific, 
quantitative characteristic of a cloud service, where the value follows the interval scale or ratio scale. an sqo 
is a commitment a cloud service provider makes for a specific, qualitative characteristic of a cloud service, 
where the value follows the nominal scale or ordinal scale. both slo and sqo could be measured by metrics. 
metric is the standard of measurement that defines the conditions and the rules for performing the 
measurement and for understanding the results of a measurement. 
with a uniform cloud sla framework, a csp and a csc could avoid confusio n and have a common 
understanding about the cloud service quality commitment. therefore, it could be used as a cloud service 
evaluation framework by a csc when comparing cloud services from different cloud service providers. 
for more information about csa, cloud sla, slo, sqo and cloud sla metric models refer to [b-iso/iec 19086-
1] and [b-iso/iec 19086-2]. 
6.5 relationship with cloud computing reference architecture 
the cloud computing reference architecture [itu -t y.3502] provides an architectural framewor k that is 
effective for describing the cloud computing roles, sub -roles, cloud computing activities, cross -cutting 
aspects, as well as the functional architecture and functional components of cloud computing. it also defines 
functional components for supporting inter-cloud computing, e.g., peer service integration and peer service 
management. 

