5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
900  
table ii.20 – test case: storage life cycle management 
storage life cycle management test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc manages storage with various operations including create, attach, 
detach, query and delete storage. 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.2 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc creates storage space called storage a with different 
types, such as block level, file-system level and object-based 
storage according to a service level agreement (sla).  
 
2 check the created storage a is accessible to the csc.  
3 stimulus the csc attaches storage a to vm a.  
4 check the vm can use storage a.  
5 stimulus the csc detaches storage a from vm a.  
6 check vm a cannot use storage a anymore but storage a could be 
used for other vms. 
 
7 stimulus deletes storage a.  
8 check storage a cannot be used.  
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
ii.2.7 test case: storage utilization status inquiring 
table ii.21 shows the test case for storage utilization status inquiring. 
table ii.21 – test case: storage utilization status inquiring 
storage utilization status inquiring test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc inquires storage utilization status information including used space 
and unused space of storage. 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.2 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc queries utilization status of storage, including used 
space and unused space of storage. 
 
2 check the csc receives the information of a particular storage's 
used space and unused space that is consistent with the 
actual utilization status of the storage. 
 
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
ii.3 test cases for network service interoperability testing between the csc and csp 
ii.3.1 test case: network policy migration 
table ii.22 shows the test case for network policy migration. 
