security 7 
 
  1051 
cloud service customer cloud service provider 
– the cloud service users and the context in which they 
use the cloud service; 
– the cloud service administrators of the cloud service 
customer who have privileged access; 
– the geographical locations of the cloud service 
provider's organization and the countries where the 
cloud service provider can store the cloud service 
customer data (even temporarily). 
– virtualization security; 
– access to and protection of cloud service customer 
data; 
– lifecycle management of cloud service customer 
accounts; 
– communication of breaches and information sharing 
guidelines to aid investigations and forensics. 
other information for cloud services 
the cloud service customer 's information security policy for cloud computing is one o f the topic -specific 
policies described in iso/iec 27002 5.1.1. the information security policy of an organization deals with its 
information and business processes. when an organization uses cloud services, it can have a policy for cloud 
computing as a cloud service customer. an organization's information can be stored and maintained in the 
cloud computing environment, and the business processes can be operated  in the cloud computing 
environment. general information security requirements stated in the information security policy at the top 
level are followed by the policy for cloud computing. 
in contrast to this, the information security policy for providing cloud services deals with the cloud service 
customers' information and business p rocesses, not with the cloud service provider's information and 
business processes. information security requirements for the provision of  the cloud service should meet 
those of the prospective cloud service customers. as a result, they might not be consistent with information 
security requirements of the information and business processes of the cloud service provider. the scope of 
the information security policy is often defined in terms of the service, but not solely by organizational 
structure or physical locations. 
there are several virtualization security aspects for cloud computing, including lifecycle management of 
virtual instances, storage and access controls for virtualized images, handling of dormant or offline virtual 
instances, snapshots, protection of hypervisors and security controls governing use of self-service portals. 
5.1.2 review of the policies for information security 
control 5.1.2 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
6 organization of information security 
6.1 internal organization 
the objective specified in clause 6.1 of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
6.1.1 information security roles and responsibilities 
control 6.1.1 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
  
