1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
362  
table 9-4 – oasis deliverables and work items related to big data 
sub  
group 
reference 
(note) 
name/title status 
amqp tc [oasis amqp 
1.0] advanced message queuing protocol version 1.0 published 
2012 
mqtt tc [oasis mqtt 
3.1.1] message queuing telemetry transport version 3.1.1 published 
2014 
note – clause i.4 contains a description of each cited reference. 
9.5 data mining group 
the data mining group (dmg) is a vendor led consortium that develops data mining related standards. the 
dmg develops the predictive model markup language (pmml), which is an xml-based file format to provide 
a way for applications to describe and exchange models produced by data mining and machine learning 
algorithms. table 9-5 lists the dmg deliverables and work items related to big data. 
table 9-5 – dmg deliverables and work items related to big data 
sub  
group 
reference 
(note) 
name/title status 
– [dmg pmml 
4.2.1] predictive model markup language 4.2.1 published 2014 
note – clause i.5 contains a description of each cited reference. 
9.6 tm forum 
the tm forum (formerly telemanagement forum) is a global member association for digital business. the 
tm forum published "guide book for big data analytics" describing best practices on big data. table 9-6 lists 
the tm forum deliverables and work items related to big data. 
table 9-6 – tm forum deliverables and work items related to big data 
sub  
group 
reference 
(note) 
name/title status 
– [tmf bdag] the big data analytics guidebook  published 
2015 
note – clause i.6 contains a description of each cited reference. 
10 gap analysis in big data standardization 
this clause provides a matrix for gap analysis and the related standardization activities with big data in order 
to identify standardization gaps. 
the matrix is composed of two axes. the horizontal axis describes document categories which cover the 
subject of applications as follows: 
− general, definition: the standard which provides general descriptions or terms and definitions of 
the technology; 
− common requirements, use cases : the standard which provides use cases and derived 
general/functional requirements; 
