xaas 3 
 
738  
 
figure 6 – relationship among csc, csp and csn 
csp and csn have their own security requirements about the environment in different levels of saas. table 
2 illustrates the security requirements of csp and csn in the saas application environment. the requirements 
applicable for both csp and csn are the common requirements. 
table 2 – security requirements of csp and csn in saas application environment 
 saas application environment 
common 
requirements 
identity and access management, data security, security assessment and audit, interface security, 
security hardening. 
csp availability, service interoperability/portability guarantee, software assets protection, legal 
compliance, security verification for source codes. 
csn audit security, software security, software maintainability. 
8.1 common security requirements 
for both csp and csn, they have several common security requirements in the saas application environment. 
8.1.1 identity and access management (iam) 
8.1.1.1 identity management (idm) 
multiple administrators and users are involved in the saas application environment, which can be accessed 
to and used internally (csps) and externally (csns). identity management (idm) is needed not only to protect 
identities, but also to facilitate access management, authentication, authorization and tr ansaction audit 
processes in such a dynamic and open saas application environment. 
for all maturity models, idm should enable the implementation of single sign-on and/or identity federation 
for the saas application environment using varied authentication mechanisms in different security domains. 
8.1.1.2 trust model 
the saas application environment is required to incorporate an overall trust model  for both multi -tenant 
level and scalable level. this trust model will enable the creation of is lands and/or federations of trusted 
entities. consequently, the saas ap plication environment management system, the underlying resources, 
hypervisors, virtual machines and applications built upon the saas application environment will be able to 
authenticate the identities and authorized rights of other entities and components. each island or federation 
of trust will be based on one or more trusted authorities (e.g. , a public key infrastructure (pki) certificate 
authority). 

