5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
924  
nist sajacc: phase i is published project to define testable use cases that provide the basis for independent 
evaluation of cloud standards, products and processes. the output of the working group report "sajacc 
working group recommendations to nist" has been delivered in february 2013. 
working group continues with phase ii to define and refine use cases with greater technical detail.  sajacc 
phase ii launched feb ruary 2013 to refine and  extend phase i use case test cases based on priority action 
plan. 
figure 5-2 shows the nist cloud portal (currently in the form of a  community wikipedia website) and the 
main steps of starting the sajacc process. sajacc has completed several iterations of steps  1-3, and 
exploratory activities conducted in a community setting for the process described in step 4 of the figure, 
resulting in output that has been documented in the nist cloud standards wiki. 
 
figure 5-2 – nist cloud standards portal (reference: nist cloud computing website) 
table 5-8 – nist documents and work items related to cci 
reference name/title status 
nist sajacc internal group report sajacc working group recommendations to nist published 
nist sajacc white paper virtual machine portability white paper draft 
nist sp 800-145 the nist definition of cloud computing published 
nist sp 500-292 nist cloud computing reference architecture published 
nist sp 500-293vol1 us government cloud computing technology roadmap 
volume i release 1.0: high-priority requirements to 
further usg agency cloud computing adoption 
draft 
nist sp 500-293vol2 us government cloud computing technology roadmap 
volume ii release 1.0: useful information for cloud 
adopters 
draft 
5.1.9 oasis 
oasis is a non-profit consortium that drives the development, convergence and adoption of open standards 
for the global information society. 
oasis works on the tosca project which is cloud interoperability initiative related aspects of cci. 
cloud includes several technical projects, such as oasis tosca project which enhances the portability and 
management of cloud applications and  services across their lifecycle.  tosca will enable the interoperable 
description of application and infrastructure cloud services, the relationships between parts of the service 
and the operational behaviour of these services (e.g., deploy, patch, shutdown). 

