1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
122  
8 functional requirements for data storage federation 
this clause describes the requirements for data storage federation. 
8.1 storage connection requirements 
(1) it is required that csp:sfp provide an interface to connect dsf local storage. 
note 1 – the interface to dsf local storage refers to the direct interfaces (i.e., object or block storage 
interface), or a proxy interface to configure several types of storages interface with a software program.  
note 2 – the software program includes software agent, daemon, web worker and restful api for an 
interface to dsf local storage. 
note 3 – the proxy interface connec ts dsf local storage by automatically detecting the interface with a 
software program. 
(2) it is required that csp:sfp provide a user interface for csc:csu to use a single virtual volume. 
note 4 – user interface includes graphical user interface, web appli cation, or specific client for csc:csu  to 
access a single virtual volume. 
(3) it is recommended that csp:sfp support the change of csc:csu's access mechanism according to 
the storage type of single virtual volume. 
(4) it is required that csp:dmp provide translation between data operation and a corresponding 
interface of dsf local storage. 
note 5 – corresponding interface include api, i/o interface, etc. 
(5) it is recommended that csp:sfp provide a secure access mechanism to use a single virtual volume 
for csc:csu. 
(6) it is required that csp:dmp provide the registration of the csc:csu's requirements. 
note 6 – the requirements of csc:csu include data storage capacity, access mechanism, storage types of 
single virtual volume, policy, etc. 
(7) it is required that csp:sfp p rovide the seamless connection of dsf local storage interface to 
communicate with dsf local storage. 
8.2 data manipulation requirements 
(1) it is required that csp:dmp provide the execution of csc:csu's create, read, update, delete (crud) 
data operation. 
note 1 – crud data operation includes create, read, update and delete data. 
(2) it is required that csp:dmp provide a search data operation from csc:csu's data using query to a 
global registry.  
(3) it is recommended that csp:dmp provide a sharing data operation by updating of sharing status of 
dsf data in a global registry after checking sharing status of dsf data. 
note 2 – data sharing means that the same dsf data is shared during data operation.  
note 3 – sharing status of dsf data is information about whether dsf data is shared or not. 
(4) it is recommended that csp:dmp provide the capacity saving of data storage using de -duplication 
of dsf data. 
(5) it is recommended csp:dmp provide dsf data encryption/decryption for data transfer to dsf local 
storage. 
(6) it is required that csp:dmp provide data recovery of csc:csu from system failure. 
note 4 – data recovery refers to restoring the most recently used csc:csu's data preventing data loss due to 
errors from the storage and network connection failure. 
(7) it is recommended that csp:dmp provide dsf data migration to available dsf local storage for 
resilience and cost efficiency of the storage space. 
note 5 – the data migration for the resilience and cost efficiency of the data storage space is automatically 
performed without user intervention or recognition.  
