1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
86  
9.2.1.3 administrator function 
the administrator function functional component supports the cloud computing activities of the csc:cloud 
service administrator. this includes f unctions for the administration of user identities and profiles, the 
monitoring of service activity and usage, event handling and problem reporting. cloud administration 
capabilities are only accessed using cloud services. 
9.2.2 access layer functional components 
figure 9-3 shows the access layer functional components which include: 
• access control: 
– service access; 
– business access; 
– administration access; 
– development access. 
• connection management. 
 
figure 9-3 – access layer functional components 
9.2.2.1 access control 
access control limits users to the use of particular services. principally, access control involves the 
authentication of a user through the presentation and validation of credentials, followed by the authorization 
of this authenticated user to use specific services. associated with this is identity management. 
access control for cloud services, the resources they depend on, and the related control functions should be 
provided. 
9.2.2.2 service access 
the service access functional component provides access to the cloud services offered by the cloud service 
provider. 
9.2.2.3 business access 
the business access functional component provides access to business capabilities offered by the cloud 
service provider, as implemented by the business support systems. 
9.2.2.4 administration access 
the administration access functional component provides access to administration capabilities offered by 
the cloud service provider, as implemented by the operational support systems. 
9.2.2.5 development access 
the development access functional component provides access to a set of capabilities within the provider's 
system that supports the development, test and maintenance of cloud service implementations. 

