security 7 
 
  1031 
5) security configuration migration management 
 when cloud computing resource or service changes (such as service capacity expansion, vm 
migration, etc.), csps should provide dynamic security configuratio n adjustment means. for 
example, during vm migration, automatic security configuration policy migration  can be 
implemented through migration status sensing, automatic matching and redeployment of the 
original security configuration policy, which could ensure security configuration policy consistency 
and fast deployment in cloud environment, and improve the efficiency of the security operation. 
6) security configuration isolation management 
 in a multi -tenancy environment of cloud computing, csps should exec ute strict classification 
management of cscs' security configuration, and take measures such as authentication, access 
control, etc. this is to ensure security configuration isolation between different cscs. 
8.6 security event processing 
csps should take certain activities to handle security events in cloud computing environment, such as threat 
alarms, vulnerability, emergency , etc. csps should also  deploy technical measures to assist in detecting, 
alarming and handling of security events. 
in general, the p rocedure of security events processing in the cloud computing environment involves the 
following steps: detecting, analysing, disposing, checking, reporting and recording. csps should explicitly 
specify the responsible persons in each step. 
8.6.1 detecting 
csps should take measures to monitor the security status of the cloud platform mentioned in clause 8.3, and 
have the abilities to send timely alarms whenever the security events happen. they should ensure that alarms 
can be sent to the designated person, such as the security manager of the cloud computing platform. the 
alarms could be sent through e-mails, phone calls, short message service (sms), etc. csps should be sure to 
monitor all kinds of security events stated in the security clause of sla. 
8.6.2 analysing 
csps should confirm the security events after receiving alarms, then analyse and diagnose them to determine 
the types of events, their causes and handling measures. csps can contact cscs for assistance, if needed. 
8.6.3 disposing 
csps should take handling measures according to the security events' types and levels, to minimize the 
impact of those event s. csps should refer to the security activities mentioned in clauses 8.7, 8.8 and 8.9 , 
which include but are not limited to the following: 
1) for a security emergency, csps should take actions according to the emergency response plans. 
2) for a security vulnerability, csps should take actions according to patch upgrade. 
3) for a configuration weakness, csps should take actions according to securing configuration management. 
csps should monitor and assess the security events dynamically, and inform cscs of related information and 
handling progress. 
8.6.4 checking 
after disposing of the security events, csps should further analyse the reasons and situations that may cause 
the security events, and check if other cscs' system has similar vulnerabilities that may  cause the same 
security events. if the vulnerability exists , csps should notify the related cscs immediately and take 
corresponding actions. the notification should not involve any privacy of other cscs. 
8.6.5 report and recording 
csps should generate sec urity events processing report which includes t he security events' behaviour, 
causes, handling measures, etc., and send it to the related  cscs within the time limit stated in the security 
clause of sla. csps should record the information of security events for later inspection and auditing.  the 
appropriate reports can be given to the affected cscs and applicable third-party auditors (acting as csn). 
