 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   157 
table i.3 – a general use case of cloud service integration 
derived 
requirements 
– user interface for cscs (see clause 7.1)  
– delivering cloud service provision request (see clause 7.4) 
– cloud service monitoring (see clause 7.5) 
– registration of cloud service (see clause 7.2) 
 
table i.4 – a general use case of cloud service customization 
title a general use case for cloud service customization in cloud service brokerage. 
description this use case describes a general use case for cloud service customization. cloud service 
customization in cloud service brokerage is a service model to search, compose and provide a 
customized cloud service to a csc according to the csc' service requireme nts. if a csn: cloud 
service broker cannot discover a service that fulfils csc's service requirements in the product 
catalogue, the csn: cloud service broker integrates and configures existing services to 
composite a new customized service. such as, layeri ng new data and process functions, 
visibility and analytics, or incorporating a new look and feel to the service. csc's service 
requirements can consist of multiple parameters such as service names, the amount of 
required resources, required service levels, required software, required configurations and so 
on. the csn: cloud service broker collects multiple cloud services provided by different csps, 
performs customization on these cloud services according to cscs' requirements.  
(1) when a csc could not find a satisfied service from the product catalogue, the csc requests 
a cloud service with service requirements to a csn: cloud service broker.  
(2) the csn: cloud service broker searches a cloud service, which fulfils the csc's 
requirements, from product catalogue.  
(3) if the csn: cloud service broker cannot find an appropriate service from the service list 
registered in the product catalogue, the csn: cloud service broker initiates customization 
process in order to generate a customized service according to the csc's requirements. 
the csn: cloud service broker integrates and/or configures (such as, layering new data 
and process functions) existing services.  
(4) then, the csn: cloud service broker registers the customized service in the product 
catalogue. 
(5) finally, through workspace, the csn: cloud service broker notifies description of the 
customized service to the csc so that the csc determines whether to us e the customized 
service or not. 
roles/sub-roles csp, csn: cloud service broker, csc 
