2 cloud computing management  
 
436  
10.1.1.1 customer order management 
customer order management is responsible for the e2e lifecycle management of a customer request for 
products. this includes customer order establishment (step guiding, data collection and validation), customer 
order publication as well as customer order orchestration and overall customer order lifecycle management. 
customer order management functionalities include the following: 
1) customer order establishment. this functionality is responsible for the acquisition of a customer 
order for products; 
2) customer order distribution. this functionality decomposes the customer order into product order 
requests (e.g., bundle decomposition); 
3) customer order publication. this functionality issues valid and complete customer orders, and stores 
the order into an appropriate inventory; 
4) customer order tracking and management. this provides the functionality necessary to track and 
manage the distributed requests decomposed by customer order distribution; 
5) customer order orchestration. this functionality provides workflow and orchestration capability 
across customer order management; 
6) customer order lifecycle management. this provides the fu nctionality necessary to track and 
manage a customer order from establishment to cancellation. 
10.1.2 customer assurance functionalities 
this covers a set of functionalities for the assurance management of cloud customers. these functionalities 
include customer problem management, customer sla management and customer quality management. 
10.1.2.1 customer problem management 
this set of functionalities is responsible for managing problems reported by customers, resolving these 
problems to the customer 's satisfaction, and providing meaningful status on the issue s, as needed, to the 
customer. these functionalities include customer problem reception and validation, customer problem 
lifecycle management, customer problem diagnostics, customer problem resolution and customer problem 
reporting. 
10.1.2.2 customer sla management 
customer sla management includes the required functionalities to assure that cloud slas made between 
cscs and csps are met. this includes processing measurements made elsewhere and checking the  
measurements and taking appropriate actions when the specified ag reements are not met. these 
functionalities include customer sla issue reception, customer sla analysis, and customer sla reporting. 
10.1.2.3 customer quality management 
customer quality man agement enables csps to leverage customer insight gained from csc transactions, 
interactions and activities with the csp to treat the csc in a personalized manner and provide a unique 
customer experience. these functionalities include customer profiling ( e.g., customer profile inquiries, 
customer behaviour tracking, prediction), customer experience monitoring, customer satisfaction validation 
and customer operational decision making. 
10.1.3 customer repositories functionalities 
this set includes functionalities for customer information management. 
10.1.3.1 customer information management 
customer information management ensures the management of a consistent, accurate and complete csp 
view of customers. this includes functionalities for customer subscription management, customer profile 
management (e.g. , managing customer p references and customer details) and customer interaction 
collection and storage. 
