security 7 
 
  977 
9.1 trust model 
a common trust model is necessary for any system where mult iple providers cooperate to provide a 
trustworthy service. 
because of the highly distributed and multi -stakeholder nature of cloud computing, the cloud computing 
environment will need to incorporate an overall trust model. this trust model will enable the creation of 
islands and/or federations of trusted entities, such that disparate elements of the system will be able to 
authenticate the identity and authorized rights of other entities and components. each island or federation 
of trust will be based on one  or more trusted authorities (e.g., a public key infrastructure (pki) certificate 
authority). 
multiple trust models exist today for both cloud and non -cloud purposes. the specific trust model to be 
adopted is out of the scope of this recommendation. 
9.2 identity and access management (iam), authentication, authorization and transaction audit 
multiple administrators and users are involved in cloud computing services, and these cloud computing 
services are accessed and used internally (csps) and externally (c scs). identity management is needed, not 
only to protect identities, but also to facilitate the access management, authentication, authorization and 
transaction audit processes in such a dynamic and open cloud computing infrastructure. 
one or more common trust models (clause 9.1) are needed by iam for the authentication of identities, and 
by developers, hypervisors and other system components for the authentication of system components such 
as downloaded software modules, applications or datasets. 
iam contributes to the confidentiality, integrity and availability of services and resources, and thus becomes 
essential in cloud computing. 
furthermore, iam may enable the implementation of single sign-on and identity federation for clouds using 
different authentication mechanisms or distributed in different security domains. 
transaction audit protects against repudiation, enables forensic analysis after a security incident, and acts as 
a deterrent to attacks (both intrusion and insider). transaction audit implies more than simple logging, but 
also includes active monitoring to flag up suspicious activities. 
9.3 physical security 
physical security needs to be achieved. a ccess to premises containing csp equipment is restricted to 
authorized persons and only to those areas directly necessary for their job functions; this is part of the iam 
process. however, the extent of physical security will depend on the value of the data and the extent to 
which multiple customers are permitted access. 
9.4 interface security 
this capability secures interfaces open to cscs and/or other contracted csps through which various kinds of 
cloud computing services are delivered, and secures communications based on these interfaces. mechanisms 
available to ensure interface security include but are not limited to: unilateral/mutual authentication, 
integrity checksum, end-to-end encryption, digital signature, etc. 
9.5 computing virtualization security 
computing virtualization security refers to the security of the whole computing virtualization environment. 
it protects the hypervisor from attacks, protects the host platform from threats originating in the computing 
virtualization environment, and keeps vms secure throughout the life -cycle. specifically, this capability 
enables vm isolation , and protects the vm images and suspended vm instances in st orage and during 
migration. 
for csp, the hypervisor often provides protection for hosted vms, for example, by providing anti-virus and 
anti-spam processing inside hypervisors, so that vms do not need to implement these functions separately. 
the hypervisor will normally be configured with the minimum set of services. unnecessary interfaces and 
