7 security  
 
972 
7.1 security threats for cloud service customers (cscs) 
the following threats are those that directly affect cscs. they may affect the  cscs' personal or business 
interests, confidentiality, lawfulness or safety. not all cscs will be at risk by all threats. the risk will be unequal 
depending on the nature of the csc and of the cloud computing service being used.  for example, a cloud 
service specific to the transcoding of commercial video files has no requirements to protect personally 
identifiable information (pii), but will have strong requirements around the protection of digital assets. 
7.1.1 data loss and leakage 
as the cloud service environment is typically a multi-tenant one, loss or leakage of data is a serious threat to 
the csc. a lack of appropriate management of cryptographic information, such as encryption keys, 
authentication codes and access privilege, could lead to significant damages, such as data loss and 
unexpected leakage to the outside. for example, insufficient authentication, authorization, and audit 
controls; inconsistent use of encryption and/or authentication keys; operational failures; disposal problems; 
jurisdiction and political issues; data centre reliability; and disaster recovery, can be recognized as major 
sources of this threat and may be associated with the challenges described in clauses 8.1.2 "loss of trust", 
clause 8.1.3 "loss of governance" and clause 8.1.4 "loss of confidentiality". 
7.1.2 insecure service access 
identity credentials, including those of csc administrators, are especially vulnerable to unauthorized users in 
the highly distributed environment of cloud computing , since unlike traditional telec ommunications it is 
often difficult to rely on location (e.g., landline) or the presence of a specific hardware element (e.g., a mobile 
subscriber identity module (sim)) to reinforce authentication of identity. as most of the service offerings are 
remote, unprotected connections expose potential vulnerability. even when the connections are protected  
or local , other attack methods (such as phishing, fraud, social engineering and exploitation of software 
vulnerabilities) may also succeed. if an attacker gains access to users' or administrators' credentials, they can 
eavesdrop on activities and transactions, manipulate data, return falsified information, and redirect a csc's 
clients to illegitimate sites. passwords are often reused across multiple websites and services, which amplify 
the impact of such attacks since a single break can expose multiple services. cloud computing solutions also 
add a new threat to the landscape. the csc's account or service instances may become a new base for an 
attacker. from this point onwards, the attacker  may leverage the power of the csc's  reputation and 
resources to launch subsequent attacks. 
7.1.3 insider threats 
where human beings are involved, there is always a risk of individuals acting in a manner that is not 
consistent with the security of the service. csc employees sharing "administrator" passwords, or otherwise 
leaving credentials unsecure (e.g., written on notes stuck to a screen), careless or inadequately trained users 
(or family members in a consumer setting), or malicious actions by disgruntled employees will always pose a 
significant threat. 
7.2 security threats for cloud service providers (csps) 
this clause identifies threats that directly affect csps. such threats might affect the ability of a csp to offer 
services, to do business, to retain customers, and to avoid legal or regulatory difficulties. threats to a given 
csp will also depend on their specific service offerings and environments. 
7.2.1 unauthorized administration access 
the cloud computing service will include interfaces and software components that allow the csc's own staff 
to administer those aspects of the cloud computing service that are under the csc's control, such as the 
addition or removal of csc employee accounts , connections to the csc's own servers, changes to service 
capacity, updating the domain name system (dns) entries and websites, etc. such administrative interfaces 
can become a target of choice for attackers who impersonate the csc's administrators to att ack a csp. 
because such cloud computing services have to be accessible to the csc's own staff, the protection of these 
services becomes a major concern for cloud computing security. 
