cloud computing management 2 
 
  481 
y.3520(13)_f02
management
system(s)
application
cloud
virtualized
resources
network
virtualized
resources
cloud
provider
resource view
provisioning
assurance
charging/billing
cloud service
provider
 
figure 2 – cloud resource management system (oss and bss) 
6.4.1 software enabled services 
the software enabled services (ses) management approach enables both traditional service providers as well 
as internet content and media service providers to leverage the opportunities and service marketplace that 
are presented by the convergence of networking and it. specifically, the ses management approach provides 
a means to allow consistent end to end management and metering of services exposed by and across 
different service providers' domains and technologies.  
operations, administration and ma nagement interfaces for cloud services today are structured in silos per 
technology, standardized by specific standards development organizations or implemented by vendors as 
proprietary implementations. this presents a challenge in the rendering of consis tent m anagement of 
services sourced from different domains.  
the ses management approach proposes a mechanism to allow consistent access to the software 
components information as well as management operations. this consistent access is achieved by 
incorporating the management interface in addition to the functional interface (fi) definition that is part of 
software component creation. the ses approach enables reusability of services in different environments, 
including that of cloud computing by manipulatin g the ses lifecycle management metadata which is 
supporting the service management interface (smi) operations. 
for further information about ses and smi concepts, please refer to appendix iii. 
the ses pattern is defined to also handle those cases where the composed service is not able to manage all 
of the management dependencies by means of the logic which is triggered by the smi operations. in this 
case, the lifecycle management metadata associated with the smi is providing a recipe which describes how 
to manage the composition members.  
protocol neutral interface information models and class models of the smi, along with corresponding 
statements of interface information requirements and interface information use cases, can then be defined 
[b-tmf tr198].  
in order for implementation of ses s to be as useful as possible, the following requirements should be 
addressed: 
