intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  929 
table 5-15 – cloud plugfests documents and work items related to cci 
reference name/title status 
etsi ts 103 142 cloud; test descriptions for cloud interoperability  published 
csmic 
cloud services measurement initiative consortium (csmic) is a consortium formed in may 2010 led by 
carnegie mellon university to address the need for industry-wide, globally accepted measures for calculating 
the benefits and risks of cloud-computing services. 
csmic works on cloud computing testing methodology related aspects of cci. 
csmic defined service management index (smi) for measuring any type of cloud services (iaas, paas, saas, 
business p rocess as a s ervice (bpaas) and big data). service measurement index framework released in 
november 2012 and has been updated to version 2 in january 2014 by csmic. 
the smi is a hierarchical framework. the top level divides the measurement space into seven categories. each 
category is further refined by three or more attributes. then within each attribute a set of kpis are defined that 
describe the data to be collected for each measure/metric. 
table 5-16 – csmic documents and work items related to cci 
reference name/title status 
smi framework version 2.0 draft service measurement index framework version 
2.0 draft 
published 
occ 
the open cloud consortium (occ) is a non-profit organization that manages and operates cloud computing 
infrastructure to support scientific, medical, health care and environmental research. 
the occ is organized into different working groups. the open cloud testbed  (oct) working group (octwg) 
of occ manages and operates the oct. the oct is a geographically distributed cloud testbed spanning four 
data centres and connected with 10 g and 100 g network connections. the oct is used to develop new cloud 
computing software and infrastructure. 
a current focus of the occ octwg  is on developing an openflow enabled version of hadoop, a project 
support by the national science foundation (nsf). 
reports and tools: http://etics.res.eng.it/tools/etics-gui/ 
ocean 
open cloud for europe, japan and beyond (ocean), a fp7 -ict support action project was established in 
august 2011 to foster the emergence of sustainable open source cloud offering and boost market innovation 
in europe, by generating greater efficiency and economics of scale among european fp7 collaborative 
research projects on open source cloud computing, and to support collaboration between japanese and 
european research and open source projects on cloud computing. 
spec 
the standard performance evaluation corporation (spec) is a non -profit corporation formed to establish, 
maintain and endorse a standardized set of relevant benchmarks. 
spec released specvirt_sc2010 in july 2010. the specvirt_sc2010 addresses performance evaluation of data 
centre servers used in virtualized server consolidation. it measures the end-to-end performance of all system 
components including the hardware, virtualization platform, and the virtualized guest operating system and 
application software. specvirt_sc2010 enables comparing of system performance across multiple hardware, 
virtualization platforms and applications. 
