1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
264  
3) inter-datacentre network : the network interconnecting remote cloud infrastructures. these 
infrastructures may be owned by the same or different csps; an inter-datacentre network primarily 
supports the following two scenarios: 
– workload migration, which means moving workloads from an enterprise datacentre to a csp 
datacentre, or moving workloads from csp to csp (for resilience and maintenance). 
– server clustering which allows transactions and storage replication for the business continuity. 
examples of inter-datacentre network models include: 
1) private cloud datacentre to private cloud datacentre 
2) private cloud datacentre to csp datacentre 
3) csp datacentre to csp datacentre. 
note 1 – for a description of a private cloud, please refer to [itu-t y.3500]. 
a centralized resource abstraction and control ensures the overall management of the cloud environment 
with: 
a) network management systems that are dedicated to network service providers. the processes 
supported by network management systems include management and maintenance of the network 
inventory and the configuration of network components, as well as fault management. 
b) cloud management systems are dedicated to csps. cloud management systems support processes 
for maintenance, monitoring and configuration of cloud infrastructure resources. 
note 2 – requirements for resource abstraction and control are provided in clause 10. 
8.1 general requirements for networking resources 
general requirements provided in this clause apply to networking resources of the access and core transport 
networks, intra-datacentre networks as well as inter-datacentre networks.   
the general requirements for networking resources include: 
• networking resources (e.g., bandwidth, number of ports, network addresses) are required to be 
scalable; 
• networking resources are required to ensure services' performance and availability in order to meet 
sla objectives; 
• networking resources are required to be able to adapt dynamically to the traffic generated by cloud 
services; 
• networking resources are required to support ipv4 and ipv6; 
• networking resources are recommended to support policy based control on flow by flow basis in a 
fine-grained manner.  
8.2 access and core transport network 
the access and core transport network is used to connect the csc to the csp for the use of cloud services. 
the access and core transport network requirement includes: 
• it is recommended that the access and core transport network supports the delivery of  cloud 
services in an optimal way in terms of performance, scalability and agility (e.g., through network 
programmability). 
8.3 intra-datacentre network 
the intra -datacentre network is used to connect local datacentre cloud infrastructures, such as servers,  
storage arrays and l4-l7 devices (e.g., firewalls, load balancers, application acceleration devices). 
