3 xaas  
 
550  
1 scope 
this recommendation provides use cases, general requirements and functional requirements for desktop as 
a service (daas).  
2 references 
the following itu-t recommendations and other references contain provisions which, through reference in 
this text, constitute provisions of this recommendation. at the time of publication, the editi ons indicated 
were valid. all recommendations and other references are subject to revision; users of this recommendation 
are therefore  encouraged to investigate the possibility of applying the most recent edition of the 
recommendations and other references listed below. a list of the currently valid itu-t recommendations is 
regularly published. the reference to a document within this rec ommendation does not give it, as a stand -
alone document, the status of a recommendation. 
[itu-t x.1601] recommendation itu-t x.1601 (2014), security framework for cloud computing. 
[itu-t y.3501] recommendation itu-t y.3501 (2013), cloud computing framework and high-level 
requirements. 
[itu-t y.3510] recommendation itu-t y.3510 (2013), cloud computing infrastructure requirements. 
3 definitions 
3.1 terms defined elsewhere 
this recommendation uses the following terms defined elsewhere: 
3.1.1 cloud service customer [itu-t y.3501]: a  person or organization  that consumes delivered cloud 
services within a contract with a cloud service provider.  
3.1.2 cloud service provider [itu-t y.3501]: an organization that provides and maintains delivered cloud 
services. 
3.1.3 hypervisor [itu-t y.3510]: a  type of system software  that allows multiple operating systems to 
share a single hardware host. 
3.1.4 virtual machine [b-dmtf ovf]: the complete environment that supports the execution of guest 
software. 
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation 
this recommendation defines the following terms: 
3.2.1 daas client : a physical device and associated sof tware running on the device that collectively 
enables a cloud service user to access desktop as a service (daas). 
3.2.2 desktop as a service (daas): a cloud service category in which the capabilities provided to the cloud 
service customer are the ability t o build, configure, manage, store, execute and deliver users' desktop 
functions remotely. 
3.2.3 virtual desktop: an environment for accessing end user's desktop functions remotely. 
note – examples of end user's desktop functions can include desktop interfa ce functions for applications, data access 
functions for multimedia data, and control functions for input/output (i/o) devices.  
3.2.4 virtual desktop infrastructure (vdi): a desktop as a service (daas) solution enabling the hosting of 
a desktop operating system within a virtual machine. 
note – in this recommendation, vdi means that the virtual machine hosting the desktop operation system is running 
in a cloud computing environment. 
