1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
220  
table ii.7 – physical machine for network edge – use case 
title physical machine for network edge 
description this use case covers the situation where physical machines will be in network edge locations 
such as at 5g cell towers, telephone exchanges and cable tv head-end multiplexers. this is 
one use of the term "micro data centre". the primary reason for this is to minimise network 
latency between end users and the cloud services running at the network edge, or to 
concentrate network traffic at the edge to manage load on core network servers (e.g., for 
massive iot telemetry applications). 
roles/sub-roles csp: cloud service operations manager. 
figure in this type of deployment, physical machines are 
constructed for deployment at the edge of the 
network, usually co-located with access network 
transmission and/or multiplexing equipment. 
examples of such locations include: 
• local telephone exchanges 
• street multiplexers (e.g., fttc) 
• cellular towers 
• cable tv head-ends 
• airliner wifi/cellular network equipment. 
pre-conditions 
(optional) 
csp: the csp wishes to deploy physical machines to support cloud services running at the 
edge of their (or a partner's) physical network. 
post-conditions 
(optional) 
the physical machine(s) run co -located with other network equipment at the edge of the 
network. the csp can deploy cloud services or service components to these network edge 
micro data centres. 
csus can access the cloud service within minimal network latency. 
the csp can process large amounts of data from csus, without imposing heavy loads on the 
backhaul network or the core network cloud services. 
derived 
requirements 
– supporting power redundancy (see clause 7.1.2) 
– adding power supply (see clause 7.4) 
– adding cooling component (see clause 7.4) 
– authorized access (see clause 7.5) 
– hot-plug support (see clause 7.6)  
– visual indications (see clause 7.1.4) 
– monitoring environment condition (see clause 7.1.6) 
 

