security 7 
 
  997 
8.5 monitoring data analysis 
monitoring data can be analyzed by the csp and csc to understand the status of the cloud platform resources 
in order to better manage and secure them. 
8.6 monitoring data presentation 
it is recommended that monitoring data be presentable in meaningful ways in order to be useful fo r better 
management of slas and cloud security. since the volume of cloud monitoring data can be very large, is 
recommended that these data be summarized in a manageable and understandable way. 
8.7 monitoring data destruction 
to maintain monitoring data security, the csp is required to destroy monitoring data as cscs demand. 
csps can optionally destroy monitoring data after an appropriate period of time after monitoring data 
creation. 
8.8 monitoring data backup 
it is required to create monitoring data backups and to restore data from backups. 
9 security threats and challenges for monitoring data of cloud computing 
the security threats and challenges for cloud computing, clauses 7 and 8 respectively in [b -itu-t x.1601], 
have provided the security threats and challenges for the csc and csp in cloud computing; cloud monitoring 
data also faces similar security threats and challenges that are defined in [b -itu-t x.1601. some of these 
security threats and challenges for cloud monitoring data include but are not limited to those shown below: 
a) data loss and leakage; 
b) insecure service access; 
c) unauthorized administration access; 
d) insider threats; 
e) loss of trust; 
f) loss of governance; 
g) loss of confidentiality; 
h) service unavailability; 
i) misappropriation of intellectual property; 
j) shared environment; 
k) jurisdictional conflict; 
l) bad migration and integration. 
for each monitoring data lifecycle stage, cloud monitoring data face some particular security threats and 
challenges. 
9.1 security threats and challenges in monitoring data collection stage 
a) data collection without authorization: a csp or attackers may collect the csc's monitoring data 
without permission or authorization. 
b) acquisition interface vulnerability: attackers may use a monitoring data acquisition interface 
vulnerability. 
c) spoofing: attackers could masquerade as the management system, or data storage server, of cloud 
monitoring service, and cause the loss of monitoring data. 
d) tampering and intercepting: attackers co uld use man -in-the-middle or other network attacks to 
tamper with, or intercept monitoring data. 
