video processing and storage 4 
 
  763 
5 conventions 
in this recommendation:  
– the keywords "is required to" indicate a requirement which must be stri ctly followed and from 
which no deviation is permitted if conformance to this recommendation is to be claimed. 
– the keywords "is recommended" indicate a requirement which is recommended but which is not 
absolutely required. thus this requirement need not be present to claim conformance.  
6 scenarios 
this clause describes typical scenarios illustrating the cloud computing platform supporting visual 
surveillance and deriving its service requirements. 
6.1 video distribution 
the cloud computing platform in a visual surveillance (vs) system can support large -scale real-time video 
forwarding. for example, many surveillance cameras are deployed in the great wall scenic area, and the 
remote monitoring function of the cameras is open to the public. if users wants to see current images of the 
great wall remotely, they can view the network video information on their local devices through the cloud-
based real-time video distribution function. 
step 1: users enter the customer unit (cu) which supports remote live video viewing of the great wall scenic 
area, and submit their request to the vs system. 
step 2: after receiving a video -viewing request, the vs system authenticates the user information, and 
obtains the related information from a video -forwarding function unit th at is deployed on the cloud 
computing platform. the cloud computing platform can dynamically create or destroy the video-forwarding 
function according to current user requests. the vs system then responds to the cu with the information 
about the video-forwarding function on the cloud computing platform. 
step 3: after receiving the vs system response, the cu sends a video-viewing request to the cloud computing 
platform. 
step 4: the cloud computing platform obtains the video stream from the corresponding came ra, and then 
forwards the video stream to the cu. 
6.2 video transcoding 
the cloud computing platform in a vs system can support video -transcoding functions, e.g., code rate 
transformation and video format conversion. the traffic department of a city has deployed a large-scale vs 
system in the city streets with high -definition network cameras. users want to view the current traffic 
situation on their way home with their mobile phones. due to the limited bandwidth of mobile devices and 
mobile data traffic limits, high-definition surveillance video needs to be transcoded to low -resolution video 
before forwarding to the cu. the video -transcoding operation can be carried out on the cloud computing 
platform. 
step 1: users log into the vs system via their mobile customer unit (mcu), and select the appropriate network 
camera. the mcu then sends a video-viewing request to the vs system with the video format description. 
step 2: after receiving the video -viewing request, the vs system authenticates the user informati on, and 
obtains the related information from a video -forwarding function unit that is deployed on the cloud 
computing platform. the vs system then responds to the mcu with the information from the video -
forwarding function in the cloud computing platform. 
step 3: after receiving the response of the vs system, the mcu sends a video-viewing request to the cloud 
computing platform. 
step 4: the cloud computing platform obtains the video stream from the corresponding camera. then, 
according to the video format d escription of the mcu, the surveillance video stream is transcoded by the 
video-transcoding component deployed in the cloud computing platform. the cloud computing platform can 
