1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
416  
• wt-411: definition of interfaces between cloud co functional modules. it defines the interfaces 
between the functional modules in the cloud co architectural framework, as well as the cloud co 
northbound api. network transport protocols, the data models, schemas or apis that are signalled 
across them will be defined as well. existing open interface works, as described in  standards and 
open source work is being leveraged as much as possible.  
• wt-412: test cases for cloud co applications. this work defines test cases for cloud co 
applications. cloud co scenarios are described in cloud co application notes. the cloud co 
application notes will detail how a certain service is instantiated, maintained and consumed across 
the cloud co architecture. the test cases will be consumed by the open broadband labs, effectively 
validating the cloud co application note. 
• wt-413: sdn man agement and control interfaces for cloudco network functions. this work 
primarily enables the migration from snmp/mib towards netconf/yang interfaces and potentially 
other protocols to exercise not only traditional fcaps management functions but also fine grained 
flow control across vnfs and physical network functions (pnfs) network service graphs. this is an 
essential step towards software networking introduction, automation and orchestration of pnfs and 
vnfs in a cloud co type of architecture. the development of this working text shall also shape the 
thinking on the way cloud co interfaces, especially for vnfs, are modelled and the opportunity to 
reuse/extend existing yang work for that. 
• wt-416: cloudco use cases and scenarios. this working text compleme nts the cloudco 
architectural framework specified in tr -384 by describing existing broadband service scenarios 
supported by the cloudco architectural framework as well the use cases that can be established 
using this cloudco architectural framework.  
table 19-2 provides an analysis of broadband forum deliverables. 
table 19-2 – analysis of broadband forum deliverables 
 general, 
definition 
requirements 
use cases architecture 
api, 
interface, 
profile 
data model, 
format, 
schema 
others 
fundamental tr-359 tr-317, tr-328     
cloud service 
category 
 wt-416 tr-384 wt-411   
security       
management    wt-413   
inter-cloud, csb       
sla, metering       
testing  wt-412     
others   tr-345    
20 metro ethernet forum 
table 20-1 provides a list of metro ethernet forum deliverables associated with cloud computing. 
table 20-1 – metro ethernet forum deliverables 
title of deliverable current status starting 
date target date 
carrier ethernet services for cloud use cases working drafts 03/2012 04/2014 
carrier ethernet services for cloud management 
interface profile 
working drafts 03/2012 04/2014 
