7 security  
 
1050 
when an objective with controls, or a control under an objective from iso/iec 27002, is needed in addition 
to those of iso/iec 27002, they are given in normative annex a: cloud service extended control set. when a 
control of iso/iec 27002 or annex a of this recommendation | international standard needs additional cloud 
service specific implementation guidance related to the control, it is given under the subtitle 
"implementation guidance for cloud services". the guidance is provided in one of the following two types: 
type 1 is used when there is separate guidance for the cloud service customer and the cloud service provider. 
type 2 is used when the guidance is the same for b oth the cloud service customer and the cloud service 
provider. 
type 1 
cloud service customer cloud service provider 
  
type 2 
cloud service customer cloud service provider 
 
additional information that might need to be considered is provided under the subtitle "other information 
for cloud services". 
5 information security policies 
5.1 management direction for information security 
the objective specified in clause 5.1 of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
5.1.1 policies for information security 
control 5.1.1 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider 
an information security policy for cloud computing 
should be defined as a topic-specific policy of the cloud 
service customer. the cloud service customer's 
information security policy for cloud computing should 
be consistent with the organization's acceptable levels 
of information security risks for its information and 
other assets. 
when defining the information security policy for cloud 
computing, the cloud service customer should take the 
following into account: 
– information stored in the cloud computing 
environment can be subject to access and 
management by the cloud service provider; 
– assets can be maintained in the cloud computing 
environment, e.g., application programs; 
– processes can run on a multi-tenant, virtualized cloud 
service; 
the cloud service provider should augment its 
information security policy to address the provision and 
use of its cloud services, taking the following into 
account: 
– the baseline information security requirements 
applicable to the design and implementation of the 
cloud service; 
– risks from authorized insiders; 
– multi-tenancy and cloud service customer isolation 
(including virtualization); 
– access to cloud service customer assets by staff of 
the cloud service provider; 
– access control procedures, e.g., strong 
authentication for administrative access to cloud 
services; 
– communications to cloud service customers during 
change management; 
