framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   181 
– management component: a management component monitors and controls all components in a 
physical machine, by analyzing the gathered status inf ormation from the components. 
a management component is a mandatory component for the physical machine. 
note – standard interfaces (e.g., i2c, pmbus, ethernet, uart, pwm) are normally used to communicate between the 
management component and others.  
beside these components, the following are needed to manage and operate the physical machine: 
– i/o interface is used for i/o device to  communicate with other physical machines or csc/csp. the 
i/o interface has two capabilities (i) capability to provide the channel for data input and output of 
the physical machine, (ii) capability to provide the channel for csp/csc to access the physical 
machine. the i/o interface follows industrial standards so that the csp could select and replace the 
components from multiple vendors. the cloud computing management system communicates with 
the physical machines without any other development by the standard management interface.  
– physical machine operation reports and maintains its running information, as well as environment 
condition periodically to the cloud computing management system [itu -t y.3521]. in addition, the 
administrator can operate the physical machine with operation capabilities.  
– scalability of components in the physical machines allows the physical machines to extend their 
resources elastically in the processing units, power supply and cooling system. 
– security of the physical machine provides access control of the processing units. 
– reliability of the physical machine is to keep physical machine consistently performing as expected. 
to provide reliability, when some components fail, the physical machine needs to support, detect  
and locate the faulty components. 
6.3 types of physical machine 
6.3.1 single processing unit type 
the single processing unit type of physical machine has one processing unit, a single management component 
as well as one or more power supplies and cooling components. since a single processing unit type has only 
one processing unit, no interconnect network component is involved in this type.  
note – an example of single processing unit type is a rack server [b-ocp bs]. 
 
figure 6-3 – example of single processing unit type  
6.3.2 multi-processing unit type 
the multi-processing unit type has two or more processing units, as well as one or more power supplies, 
cooling components and a single management component and a single interconnect network.  
note – examples of a multi-processing unit type are blade servers [b-ocp osr] and rack scale servers [b-ocp ocsc]. 

