 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   83 
the layering framework is shown diagrammatically in figure 9-1. 
 
figure 9-1 – cloud computing layering framework 
each of the layers in the framework is described in the following subclauses. 
9.1.1.1 user layer 
the user layer is the user interface through which a cloud service customer  interacts with cloud service 
provider and with cloud services, performs customer related administrative activities, and monitors cloud 
services. it can also offer the output of cloud services to another resource layer instance. 
9.1.1.2 access layer 
the access layer provides a common interface for both manual and automated access to the capabilities 
available in the services layer. these capabilities include both the capabilities of the services and also the 
administration and business capabilities.  
the access layer is responsible for presenting cloud service  capabilities over one or more access 
mechanisms – for example, as a set of web pages accessed via a browser, or as a set of web services which 
can be accessed programmatically, on secure communication. another responsibility of the access layer is to 
apply appropriate security functionality to the acces s to cloud service  capabilities. the access layer is 
responsible for authenticating the request through the use of user credentials and for validating the 
authorization of the user to use particular capabilities. the access layer is also responsible for ha ndling 
encryption and checking for request integrity, where required. 
the access layer can also be responsible for enforcing qos policies on the traffic coming from the user layer 
(e.g., service requests to the cloud service provider) and the traffic towar ds the user layer (e.g., output of 
cloud services). 
the access layer passes on validated requests to the components in the services layer. the access layer 
accepts cloud service customer  or cloud service provider 's cloud service consumption requests to acc ess 
csps' services and resources. 
9.1.1.3 service layer 
the service layer contains the implementation of the services provided by a cloud service provider . the 
service layer contains and controls the software components that implement the services (but not  the 
underlying hypervisors, host operating systems, device drivers, etc.), and arranges to offer the cloud services 
to users via the access layer. 
the service implementation software in the service layer in turn relies upon the capabilities available in t he 
resource layer to provide the services that are offered and to ensure that the requirements of any sla 
relating to the services are met, for example, through the use of sufficient resources. 

