xaas 3 
 
    645 
y .3513(14)_f6-1
user layer
access layer
service
layer
resource 
layer
iaas
(computing/storage/network)
physical/virtual resources
(processing, storage
and networking)
 
figure 6-1 – high level concept of iaas 
an iaas instance can be configured by the csc using a template to define the set of parameters stating, how 
infrastructure resources are organized. such iaas instance consists of configured processing, storage or 
networking resources, as well as infor mation located in the resources, which may include  cloud service 
provider data, cloud service customer data or both. 
iaas cloud service provider (csp) also provides business and administration capabilities to csc, which are 
common capabilities for cloud se rvices. the functional requirements of business and administration 
capabilities are for further study.  
note – regarding the network connectivity, one important difference between iaas and network as a service (naas) is 
that iaas is a cloud service category that is offered in only one flavour of cloud capability type, and that is infrastructure 
capabilities type [itu-t y.3500]. however, naas is a cloud service category that can be offered in all three cloud 
capabilities types. 
7 functional requirements 
– it is recommended that iaas csp provides to the csc iaas functions, such as a composition of 
processing, storage, and networking resources with service logic, specific service level agreements 
(slas) and charging model. 
– it is required that iaas csp provides the csc with operations handling mechanisms related to 
provisioned infrastructure resources, such as assign, modify, query and release. 
– it is recommended that iaas csp provide s status information about the infrastructure in response 
to queries from the csc.  
 note – the status information includes, but not limited to, available, reserved and in-use. 
– it is recommended that iaas csp provide s template to the csc, related to instantiation of 
infrastructure, which allows to provision processing , storage and networking resources that could 
be implemented based on the configuration. 
– it is recommended that iaas csp provides the csc with operations handling mechanisms related to 
infrastructure templates to allow modification of infrastructure, such as upload, update, disable, 
enable, query or release. 
7.1 computing service functional requirements 
– it is required that iaas csp provides computing functions with specific slas and charging model to 
the csc. 
