1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
150  
– automation of service deregistration: it is recommended that a csn: cloud service broker provide 
automatic cloud service deregistration to perform deregistration procedures conveniently and safely. 
– notification of service deregistration : it is requi red that a csn: cloud service broker provide the 
notification of the service deregistration to cscs not to use the deregistered service. 
– request for maintaining cloud service: it is recommended that a csn: cloud service broker request 
the related csp to maintain the deregistered service until the cscs finish using the cloud service. 
– providing cloud service requirement template: it is recommended that a csn: cloud service broker 
provide a template for service requirements to cscs for receiving csc's requirements. 
 note 3 – the requirement template reflects information about csc's requirements.  
 note 4 – the csc's requirement includes sla information of the cloud service such as quality, price of cloud 
service, remedies for failures to meet the terms of the sla and so on. the csc's requirement also includes 
information about specifications of the cloud service such as virtual mach ine, operating system (os) type, 
applications, etc. 
– cloud service requirement validation: it is recommended that a csn: cloud service broker provide 
validation of the contents in the cloud service requirement template.  
– cloud service search: it is required that a csn: cloud service broker provide searching a cloud service 
in the product catalogue to meet the requirements of cscs. 
 note 5 – the requirements of a csc are used as search criteria that include specifications and service level of 
a cloud service that a csc wants to use. 
– providing the best matched cloud service : it is recommended that a csn: cloud service broker 
provide cscs with the best matched cloud services and information about the csps who provide the 
cloud services reflecting the csc's requirements. 
– cloud service alteration: it is recommended that a csn: cloud service broker request csps to alter 
registered services for cloud service customization. 
– cloud service substitution for integrated cloud service: it is recommended that a csn: cloud service 
broker provide alternative cloud services in a product catalogue for an integrated cloud service. 
 note 6 – based on the alternative cloud services in a product catalogue, a csn: cloud service broker provides 
the substitution of cloud service as a member of an integrated cloud service. 
– equivalent cloud service selection: it is recommended that a csn: cloud service broker provide an 
equivalent cloud service in the product catalogue with the registered service to migrate to keep 
service equivalence after migration. 
7.3 functional requirements for contract management 
– cloud service charging : it is recommended that a csn: cloud service broker provide billing 
information to cscs by reorganizing billing information gathered from related csps. 
 note 1 – the billing information is used to generate invoices for the usage of a cloud service. the billing 
information includes business information related to payment, such as methods for payment and biller and 
costs for the usage of the cloud service based on price and metering. 
– configuration of cloud service for contract : it is recommended that a csn: cloud service broker 
configure a cloud service through selecting elements of the cloud service by a csc. 
 note 2 – examples of elements for cloud service specification are virtual machines, os type, applications, etc. 
– service level objectives (slo) selection: it is recommended that a csn: cloud service broker provide 
selection of service level objectives to a csc according to business requirements of the csc. 
– sla document management : it is recommended that a csn: cloud service broker provide 
generation of a  sla document according to the agreement to share the sla document with the 
related csc.  
– sla description model : it is recommended that a csn: cloud service broker provide a sla 
description model to describe terms and conditions. 
 note 3 – examples of terms and conditions are guaranteed  service levels and remedies for failures to meet 
the terms of the sla. 
