 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   81 
the split of control means that both roles now share the responsibilities of providing adequate protections 
to the cloud computing systems. security is a shared responsibility. security controls, i.e., measures used to 
provide protections, need to be analysed to determine which role is in a better position to implement such 
controls. this analysis needs to include considerations from a service category perspective, where different 
cloud service categories  imply different degrees of control between cloud service providers  and cloud 
service customers. it is important to provide a clear definition of the responsibilities of both the customer 
and the provider and to ensure that all aspects of security are covered, to avoid responsibility ambiguity. 
for example, account management controls for initial system privileged users for an iaas service are typically 
performed by the iaas cloud service provider;  meanwhile, application user account management for the 
application deployed to that iaas service is typically the responsibility of the cloud service customer  who 
deploys the application using the iaas service. by contrast, for an saas application service, the account 
management controls for all types of users are in the hands of the cloud service provider (although the cloud 
service customer can provide capabilities such as third-party authentication). 
8.5.12.3 cloud service category perspectives 
a cloud service category defined in rec. itu-t y.3500 | iso/iec 17788 is a group of cloud services that possess 
a common set of qualities. cloud service categories present cloud service customers with different types of 
service management operations and expose different entry points into cloud computing systems, which in 
turn also create different attack surfaces for adversaries. hence, it is importan t to consider the impact of 
cloud service categories and their different issues in security design and implementation. 
for example, saas provides users with accessibility of cloud computing offerings using a network connection, 
possibly over the internet and through a web browser. there has been an emphasis on web browser security 
in saas cloud computing system security considerations. csc:cloud service users of iaas services are typically 
provided with virtual machines (vms) that are executed on hypervisor s on the hosts; therefore, hypervisor 
security for achieving vm isolation has been studied extensively for iaas cloud service providers  that use 
virtualization technologies. 
8.5.12.4 implications of cloud deployment models 
the different cloud deployment models have important security implications. one way to look at the security 
implications from the deployment model perspective is the differing level of exclusivity of tenants in the 
deployment model. a private cloud is dedicated to one cloud service custom er organization, whereas a 
public cloud could have tenants from many different organizations co-existing with each other.  
another way to analyse the security impact of cloud deployment models  is to use the concept of access 
boundaries. for example, an on-site private cloud system can or cannot need additional boundary controllers 
at the cloud service boundary when the private cloud system is hosted on site within the cloud service 
customer organization's network boundary, whereas an outsourced private clou d tends to require the 
establishment of such perimeter protection at the boundary of the cloud services. 
8.5.12.5 data protection strategy and responsibility 
protection of data assumes a new dimension in cloud computing. an organization can opt to store its data in 
a cloud service  but then the data protection responsibility and accountability needs to be agreed upon 
clearly. the first step that the cloud service customer takes is to properly catalogue the data and identify its 
sensitivity and the risk to the business of its leakage, loss or corruption. (see iso/iec 27002 as a reference for 
how to identify the sensitivity of data). 
ideally, it should be the cloud service customer's responsibility to secure the data before it is moved to a 
cloud computing system. however, the provider  would be accountable for any data tampering or theft. 
encryption is a potential technique to use but then key management has to be given consideration where 
the cloud service customer or any third party manages the keys. if the keys are managed by the cloud service 
provider then they are responsible for the logical and physical control of the keys, as well as the data. 
