5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
892  
table ii.6 – test case: vm reservation 
vm reservation test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc reserves available computing resources (cpu, memory) for a 
particular vm before it is initiated. 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.1.9 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc configures vm reservation, which includes the 
configuration of guaranteed minimum allocation of cpu and 
memory for a specified vm, called vm a. 
 
2 stimulus the csc runs an application to perform heavy consumption 
of cpu and memory on other vms hosted in the same host 
except for vm a. consumption of cpu and memory is close 
to the amount of the host computing resource. 
 
3 stimulus the csc performs heavy consumption of cpu and memory 
on vm a. 
 
4 check cpu and memory resources reserved for vm a are not 
occupied by other vms.  
 
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
ii.1.7 test case: vm image 
table ii.7 shows the test case for vm image. 
table ii.7 – test case: vm image 
vm image test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc creates a new vm by vm image, which consists of infrastructure 
configuration and csp data, csc data or both. 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.1.10 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc creates an image, called image a. image a is 
converted from existing vm1. 
 
2 stimulus the csc creates a vm based on image a.  
3 check new vm (vm2) can be created based on image a. the 
configuration, csp data and csc data of new vms are 
consistent with vm1.  
 
4 stimulus the csc exports image a as exported image in different 
supporting format, such as qcow2, vmdk, etc.  
 
5 stimulus the csc imports the exported image as image b.  
6 stimulus the csc creates a vm based on image b.  
7 check a new vm can be created based on image b. the 
configuration, csp data and csc data of new vms created 
based on the vm image are consistent with the vm image.  
 
8 stimulus the csc updates image b by modifying the name of the 
image. 
 
9 check the name of the image changes to a specified name.  
10 stimulus the csc deletes image b.  
11 check the vms created which are based on image b still exist.  
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
