security 7 
 
  1067 
14 system acquisition, development and maintenance 
14.1 security requirements of information systems 
the objective specified in clause 14.1 of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
14.1.1 information security requirements analysis and specification 
control 14.1.1 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
the cloud service customer should determine its 
information security requirements for the cloud service 
and then evaluate whether services offered by a cloud 
service provider can meet these requirements. 
for this evaluation, the cloud service customer should 
request information on the information security 
capabilities from the cloud service provider. 
the cloud service provider should provide information 
to the cloud service customers about the information 
security capabilities they use. this information should 
be informative without disclosing information that could 
be useful to someone with malicious intent. 
other information for cloud services 
care should be taken to limit disclosure of implementation details about security controls as they relate to 
the cloud service being provided to those cloud service customers or potential cloud service customers who 
have a non-disclosure agreement in place. 
14.1.2 securing applications services on public networks 
control 14.1.2 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
14.1.3 protecting application services transactions 
control 14.1.3 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
14.2 security in development and support processes 
the objective specified in clause 14.2 of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
14.2.1 secure development policy 
control 14.2.1 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
the cloud service customer should request information 
from the cloud service provider about the cloud service 
provider's use of secure development procedures and 
practices 
the cloud service provider should provide information 
about its use of secure development procedures and 
practices to the extent compatible with its policy for 
disclosure.  
other information for cloud services 
secure development procedures and practices of the cloud service provider can be critical to saas. 
14.2.2 system change control procedures 
control 14.2.2 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
