1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
304  
table i.5 – inter-cloud use case: service continuity 
use case 
use case title inter-cloud use case: service continuity 
relevant roles csp and csc 
use case description – the cloud service offering continues through the collaboration with other 
csps, even when the original csp terminates its business. 
– available resources in the csps other than the service-terminating csp are 
discovered and reserved in advance. 
– network connections among the interworking csps are established or 
reconfigured. then service-related data including user identifier (id), user 
data and application data are transferred from the original csp to the new 
csps. 
– access from cscs is appropriately changed to the interworking csps so that 
the same service is continuously offered.  
– if the capabilities (vm and applications) at the original csp migrate to other 
csps, the csc, who keeps the same user id, can continuously access the 
service at the same level of performance as before. 
information flow  – the relevant csps are supposed to join a common trusted alliance in 
advance and set up the service level agreements (slas). 
– the terminating csp inquires about the resource availability of other csps 
in the alliance and requests a reservation of the available resources to 
continue the services. 
– the cloud resource management (e.g., crud: create, read, update and 
delete) are operated across multiple csps. the management is to enable 
leasing of the cloud resources from different csps in the federation.  
high-level figure describing the 
use case 
csc
n
n
y .3511(14)_fi.tab5
o
pre-processes
• csps form a group with service level agreement (i.e., policy negotiation).
• p-csp replicates its data to other s-csps in advance.
primary-
csp
secondary-
csp
s-csp
s-csp
4. p-csp changes the
csc access to the s-csp.
group
1. a csc accesses
p-csp services.
2. the p-csp initiates
service closure.
3. the p-csp chooses s-csps and reserves the resources.
3a. when some cscs are in service, the p-csp performs
migration to continue the service to the cscs.
3b. when no csc is in service, the s-csp invokes
application to offer the same service.
note – when all services and their users are moved to other s-csps, p-csp will close the service.
 
derived requirements for cloud 
capability 
the system is required to support: 
– policy negotiation including sla management among the multiple csps 
within a pre-established group (federation); 
– discovery, reservation, use and release of the cloud resources in a dynamic 
manner (i.e., not relying on the pre-configuration) across the multiple csps 
within the federation; 
– capability migration (e.g., vm and applications) among multiple csps within 
the federation; 
– alteration (i.e., switchover) of the csc access, in a dynamic manner (i.e., not 
relying on the pre-configuration), from one csp to another csp within the 
federation; 
– exchange of authentication information about csc (user/enterprise) 
authentication status among the multiple csps within the federation. 
