7 security  
 
1058 
9.3 user responsibilities 
the objective specified in clause 9.3 of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
9.3.1 use of secret authentication information 
control 9.3.1 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
9.4 system and application access control 
the objective specified in clause 9.4 of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
9.4.1 information access restriction 
control 9.4.1 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
the cloud service customer should ensure that access to 
information in the cloud service can be restricted in 
accordance with its access control policy and that such 
restrictions are realized. this includes restricting access 
to cloud services, cloud service functions, and cloud 
service customer data maintained in the service. 
the cloud service provider should provide access 
controls that allow the cloud service customer to restrict 
access to its cloud services, its cloud service functions 
and the cloud service customer data maintained in the 
service. 
other information for cloud services 
the cloud computing environment includes additional areas that require access controls. as part of the cloud 
service or cloud service functions, access to functions and services, such as the hypervisor management 
functions and administrative consoles, might need additional access control. 
9.4.2 secure log-on procedures 
control 9.4.2 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
9.4.3 password management system 
control 9.4.3 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
9.4.4 use of privileged utility programs 
control 9.4.4 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider 
where the use of utility programs is permitted, the 
cloud service customer should identify the utility 
programs to be used in its cloud computing 
environment, and ensure that they do not interfere with 
the controls of the cloud service. 
the cloud service provider should identify the 
requirements for any utility programs used within the 
cloud service. 
the cloud service provider should ensure that any use 
of utility programs capable of bypassing normal 
operating or security procedures is strictly limited to 
authorized personnel, and that the use of such 
programs is reviewed and audited regularly. 
