7 security  
 
1036 
− the storage location including local and/or remote; 
− the retention periods for backup data; 
− the procedures to test the backup data. 
before choosing csp, csc should  confirm whether that csp could meet the security clause of the sla 
including the capability of backup. if csp does not provide a backup  capability, csc should fully consider a 
backup strategy and implementation . otherwise, if csp provides a backup  capability, then csc should 
cooperate with csp to carry out backup operations. 
csp should share the essential details of the backup mechanism with cscs. when dealing with backup, csps 
should address the specifications to meet each of the following csc's requirements: 
1) backup strategy: since each csc has individual needs in backup, the related factors should be 
primarily considered, which include: 
− reasonable recovery point objective (rpo) and recovery time objectives (rto). rpo indicates 
the time span between two consecutive backup activities, while rto reflects how long it takes 
to roll-back to a backup. 
− reasonable retention policy: the policy should specify the copy number of a backup. 
− reasonable combination of file-level backup and virtual machine level backup: the combination 
should satisfy an optimal investment cost, which is based upon rpo and rto. 
− reasonable combination of on-site backup and off-site backup: the on-site backup is stored in 
the local site, which could meet the need of fast disaster recovery. the off-site backup is stored 
in a remote site, which is needed to cope with a major disaster. the combination depends on 
the requirement of the security clause of the sla, and the investment cost. 
− regular test procedures of recovery: the recovery test is the ultimate method to verify the 
validity of a backup. 
2) task arrangement: once the backup strategy is determined, csps should make an appropriate task 
arrangement of backup operations. to reduce the impact on the performance of the cloud 
computing infrastructure, the backup task arrangement should depend on csc's backup 
requirements, the network traffic pattern and the backup capability of csp. 
3) procedures to check the validation of backup: a complete and correct data copy means a successful 
backup operation. generally, the procedures should contain the following two main steps: 
− using a one-way hash function to verify that the b ackup is consistent with the original data. if 
the backup is the same as the original, then go to the next step. moreover, a digital signature 
method could be used to verify the backup operator, which can introduce some benefit to the 
management of backup operation. 
− taking a recovery test for the backup. as the continuous change in the cloud computing 
environment, regular recovery test is critical. 
4) prudence about the snapshots of the virtual machine: in a cloud computing scenario, the snapshot 
method p rovides a quick and easy means of rollback, which could act as a backup method to a 
certain extent. however, the snapshot method should not be used frequently due to the following 
reasons: 
− snapshots allow the same data to multiply and to be written in di fferent snapshot files, which 
could easily bring about serious performance degradation and rapid storage occupancy in the 
cloud computing systems. 
− in order to reduce storage occupancy, a chain of an original virtual machine snapshots is often 
configured to merely contain the difference from the first snapshot. once the first snapshot is 
destroyed, the successive snapshots would end up being invalid. the security risk is magnified 
as the rate of successive snapshots increases. 
