5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
894  
table ii.9 – test case: vm scaling 
vm scaling test description 
6 stimulus the csc runs an application on vm a to perform more than 
90% consumption of cpu on vm a to trigger auto-scaling. 
 
7 check a new vm with the same resource configuration as vm a is 
added. 
 
8 stimulus the csc configures the configuration change based scaling 
policy that when memory consumed is less than 10%, reduce 
memory allocation by half for vm a automatically. 
 
9 check the csc performs low(less than 10%) consumption of 
memory on vm a to trigger auto-scaling.  
 
10 stimulus memory allocation for vm a is reduced by half.  
11 check the csc configures the components change based scaling 
policy that when the cpu consumed less than 10%, remove a 
vm automatically. 
 
12 stimulus the csc performs low(less than 10%) consumption of cpu on 
vm a to trigger auto-scaling. 
 
13 check vm a is terminated.  
14 stimulus the csc configures events monitoring based components 
change for vm a that when vm a is suspended, add a new 
vm with the same resource configuration as vm a 
automatically. 
 
15 stimulus the csc suspends vm a.  
16 check a new vm with the same resource configuration as vm a is 
added. 
 
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
ii.1.10 test case: vm backup 
table ii.10 shows the test case for vm backup. 
table ii.10 – test case: vm backup 
vm backup test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc obtains the configuration and data of a particular vm by making a 
backup and restoring the vm. 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.1.7 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc makes a backup of vm a, called backup a.   
2 stimulus the csc changes the configuration and data of vm a.   
3 stimulus the csc restores vm a with backup a.  
4 check configuration and data of vm a is consistent with the state 
when backup a was taken. 
 
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
