1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
178  
sas serial attached scsi 
sata serial at attachment 
scsi small computer system interface 
sel system event log 
soc system-on-a-chip 
sram static random access memory 
tcp transmission control protocol 
uart universal asynchronous receiver/transmitter 
usb universal serial bus 
vga video graphics array 
vm virtual machine 
5 conventions 
in this recommendation: 
the keywords "is required to" indicate a requirement which must be strictly followed and from which no 
deviation is permitted if conformance to this document is to be claimed. 
the keywords "is recommended" indicate a requirement which is recommended but which is not absolutely 
required. thus this requirement need not be present to claim conformance. 
the keywords "is not recommended" indicate a requirement which is not recommende d but which is not 
specifically prohibited. thus, conformance with this specification can still be claimed even if this requirement 
is present. 
the keywords "can optionally" indicate an optional requirement which is permissible, without implying any 
sense of being recommended. this term is not intended to imply that the vendor's implementation must 
provide the option and the feature can be optionally enabled by the network operator/service provider. 
rather, it means the vendor may optionally provide the fea ture and still claim conformance with the 
specification. 
6 overview of the physical machine 
6.1 introduction to the computing machine 
cloud infrastructure includes processing, storage, networking and other hardware resources, as well as 
software assets, for more information see clause 6 in [itu-t y.3510]. processing resources are used to provide 
essential capabilities for cloud services and to support other system capabilities such as resource abstraction 
and control, management, security and monitoring.  
a computing machine provides allocation and scheduling of processing resources. types of computing 
machine are physical or virtual [itu-t y.3510]. the capability of a computing machine is typically expressed 
in terms of configuration, availability, scalability, manageability and energy consumption [itu-t y.3510]. 
the requirements of the virtual machine, as one of categories of the computing machine, have been specified 
in [itu-t y.3510]. those requirements include virtualization technologies that can be app lied to resource 
types such as the central processing unit (cpu), memory, input/output (i/o) and network interfaces. several 
requirements regarding virtual machine management have also been identified, e.g., duplication of a virtual 
machine (vm) dynamic/static migration of avm and management automation.  
  
