1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
300  
table i.2 – inter-cloud use case: performance guarantee against an abrupt increase in load 
use case 
derived requirements for the 
cloud capability 
the capability is required to support:  
– policy negotiation including sla management among the multiple csps 
within a pre-established group (i.e., federation); 
note – policy refers to a way for a csp to provide services in terms of 
presumed reliability of a machine, including its backup scheme and target 
service levels. the policy may be different with each csp. to maintain the same 
quality of service to the csc even when the csp changes, the difference should 
be negotiated beforehand and settled. this process is referred to as policy 
negotiation. the same note applies to the other use cases. 
– self-performance monitoring at a csp. if the performance degrades, the csp 
should initiate the next configured actions; 
– discovery, reservation, use and release of cloud resources in a dynamic 
manner (i.e., not relying on the pre-configuration) on other csps within a 
federation; 
– application invocation over the reserved resources on other csps within a 
federation;  
– alteration and reversion (i.e., switchover and switchback) of csc access 
from one csp to another csp in a dynamic manner (i.e., not relying on the 
pre-configuration) within a federation; 
– exchange of monitoring and auditing information among the multiple csps 
within a federation; 
– exchange of authentication information about csc (user/enterprise) 
authentication status among the multiple csps within a federation.  
i.3 performance guarantee regarding delay (optimization for user location) 
table i.3 shows inter-cloud use case for performance guarantee regarding delay. 
table i.3 – inter-cloud use case: performance guarantee regarding delay 
use case  
use case title inter-cloud use case: performance guarantee regarding delay 
relevant roles csp and csc 
use case description – csps guarantee their service performance (in particular, network delay 
and response time), even when a csc moves to a remote location (e.g., 
on a business trip), by using cloud resources provided by another csp 
located close to the csc on a temporary basis. 
– when degradation in the response time is detected for a csc at a csp, 
available resources are autonomously discovered and reserved in 
another csp that is near the csc based on the user's location 
information. 
