 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   15 
annex a 
 
cloud service categories 
(this annex does not form an integral part of this recommendation | international standard.) 
annex a describes the possibility of there being additional cloud service categories  not yet found in this 
recommendation | international standard. 
table a.1 – cloud service categories and cloud capabilities types 
cloud service categories 
cloud capabilities types 
infrastructure platform application 
compute as a service x   
communications as a service  x x 
data storage as a service x x x 
infrastructure as a service x   
network as a service x x x 
platform as a service  x  
software as a service   x 
table a.1 shows the relationship of the seven cloud service categories  and three cloud capabilities types 
described in clause 6. an "x" at the intersection of a row and column depicts that the cloud service category, 
shown as a row in table a.1, is of the indicated cloud capabilities type, shown as a column in table a.1. 
a cloud service category  that offers p rocessing, storage or networking resources has an "x" in the 
infrastructure column. a cloud service category may offer the capability of deploying, managing and running 
customer-created or customer-acquired applications using one or more programming languages and one or 
more execution environments supported by the cloud service provider , in which case it has an "x" in the 
platform column. similarly, a cloud service category may offer the use of an application offered by the cloud 
service provider , in which case it will have an "x" in the application column. note that a cloud service 
category could offer any combination of the three cloud capability types. 
the commercial cloud computing market is very dynamic and new cloud services continue to materialize 
into new informal cloud service categories. some examples of such emerging cloud service categories are 
included in table  a.2. many more cloud service categories  will continu e to emerge as cloud computing 
continues to grow. 
