6 monitoring  
 
956  
see table 7-8. 
table 7-8 – parameters collected for the monitoring environment 
metric name description unit 
temperature current temperature of server room oc 
voltage current voltage of electricity supply v 
electric current electric current of electricity supply a 
ups voltage  output voltage of an uninterruptible power 
system (ups) battery v 
ups output electric current  output electric current of ups battery a 
ups charging electric current electric current of charging  a 
humidity  relative humidity of server room % 
fan rotations fan rotations per minute  rotations/min 
power of fan  current power of fan consumption w 
7.2 service layer parameters 
7.2.1 general 
one of the most important areas for provider and consumer is service performance and availability when it 
comes to cloud computing. cloud service provider and consumer need to get an entire view of the health of 
service. a lot of decision making and sla de termination are driven by service performance and availability. 
the monitoring system should report the service performance and availability parameters to identify 
whether the qos specified in the sla is fulfilled. 
different cloud services can be offered w ith different terminologies, specifications and features. cloud 
services can achieve different levels of performance under various workloads generated by diverse 
applications. for example, unlike computation and communication -intensive applications, perfor mance of 
data-intensive applications typically will be strongly affected by i/o performance and storage access in a 
cloud infrastructure. the monitoring parameters of typical services are included in this clause. others are for 
further study. 
see table 7-9. 
table 7-9 – performance metrics for monitoring general cloud services 
category metric name description 
availability 
mtbf  mean time between failures  
mttr  mean time to repair  
performance 
response time response time for composite or atomic service  
throughput number of transactions or requests processed per 
specified unit of time 
capacity 
bandwidth  bandwidth of the connection that supports a service 
storage capacity capacity of a temporary or persistent storage medium, 
such as ram, disk or tape 
