7 security  
 
998 
e) insecure service access: in the monitoring data collection stage, insecure access to the data 
collection interfaces could cause monitoring data loss. 
f) unauthorized administration access: unauthorized administration access to the csp's monitoring 
data collection system, or the csc's system could result in monitoring data loss. for example, 
attackers may use a system vulnerability to gain unauthori zed administration access to the csc's 
system and modify the monitoring collection destination ip address to that of the attackers. 
9.2 security threats and challenges in monitoring data storage stage 
a) data loss and leakage: as the cloud service environment is typi cally a multi -tenant one, loss or 
leakage of data is a serious threat to both the csc and csp. a lack of appropriate management of 
cryptographic information, such as encryption keys, authentication codes and access privilege, could 
lead to significant damages, such as data loss and unexpected leakage to the outside. for example, 
insufficient authentication, authorization, and audit controls; inconsistent use of encryption and/or 
authentication keys; operational failures; disposal problems; jurisdiction and political issues; data 
centre reliability; and disaster recovery, can be recognized as major threats. 
b) service unavailability: a monitoring data storage server can be attacked by a denial of service (dos) 
or distributed denial of service (ddos) attack; i n addition, the monitoring data storage hardware 
could fail and cause data loss or destruction. 
9.3 security threats and challenges in monitoring data use stage 
a) data misuse: csc monitoring data could be misused by the csp. monitoring data could be used by a 
csp to maintain sla and the operation of cloud computing platform and resources; however, csc 
monitoring data could also be used for other purposes by the csp without csc permission. 
b) insider threats: an employee of a csp or csc could misuse the csc's monitoring data for other than 
intended purposes. 
c) system vulnerability: monitoring data could be lost during data usage due to system vulnerabilities. 
d) eavesdropping: monitoring data could be subject to eavesdropping by attackers. 
9.4 security threats and challenges in monitoring data migration stage 
a) data misuse: monitoring data could migrate between different physical locations. it is very 
important not to allow data to be misused as a result of monitoring data being transmitted to 
different locations. 
b) spoofing: attackers could masquerade as the management system or data storage server of a cloud 
monitoring service, and cause the loss or misuse of monitoring data. 
c) tampering and intercepting: attackers could use man-in-the-middle or other network attacks to 
tamper and intercept monitoring data. 
9.5 security threats and challenges in monitoring data analysis stage 
a) data misuse: csc monitoring data could be misused by the csp during data analysis. 
b) system vulnerability: monitoring data could be lost due to a data analysis system vulnerability. 
c) dos attack: a monitoring data analysis server could be attacked by dos or ddos attack. 
9.6 security threats and challenges in monitoring data presentation stage 
a) data misuse: csc monitoring data could be misused (or be presented without csc permission) by 
the csp during data presentation. 
b) system vulnerability: reporting and analysis data could be lost due to a data presentation system 
vulnerability. 
c) misrepresentation: csc monitoring data could be misrepresented during a data presentation. 
