2 cloud computing management  
 
434  
figure 9-1 is based on service and resource management chains including the csc, one or more csps, and a 
telecommunication operator. the squared boxes with a black outline represent different parties involved in 
the common model for e2e cloud computing management. 
the term "inter-cloud" is used in accordance with [itu-t y.3511] and covers the integration of cloud services 
from two or more csps. 
the term "multi-cloud", as used in this recommendation, includes holistic e2e management of one or more 
cloud service providers providing a given cloud service (see [itu-t y.3502], [itu-t y.3520], [itu-t x.1601]). 
the term "cloud-aware" is used here to describe the requirement of telecommunication management that 
are able to manage cloud -based facilities. this ability could be realized through the use of m anagement 
interface "i1" which provides necessary i nformation from the csp 's bss/oss to the cloud-aware 
telecommunication management system. the management interface "i1" can correspond to a set of smis as 
described in this recommendation. 
note that the telecommunication operator may also act as a cloud service provider, see figure 9-2. 
 
figure 9-2 – common model for e2e cloud computing management, with telecommunication  
operator acting as a csp 
in this case, the "i1" interface resides within the telecommunication operator. 
the common model for e2e cloud computing management does not impl y any particular arrangement of 
inter-cloud connectivity. for example, the telecommunication operator acting as a csp could be acting as an 
intermediary csp between the csc and other cloud services, or in any other inter -cloud role described in 
[itu-t y.3511]. the management architecture is unaffected by this. 
10 cloud computing management functionalities 
this clause identifies functionalities for cloud computing management. the high-level organization of cloud 
computing m anagement functionalities presented  in figure 10 -1 is based on the management layering 
described in clause 8.1 covering customer management, product management, service management, and 
resource management. 

