cloud computing management 2 
 
  533 
7.6 inter-cloud data policy monitoring 
it is recommended that the csp support real-time data policy monitoring in inter-cloud to fulfil the data policy 
provided by the csc. 
7.7 inter-cloud dynamic data policy management 
it is recommended that the csp support dynamic data policy management in inter -cloud to fulfil the data 
policy provided by the csc. 
7.8 inter-cloud autonomic data policy management 
it is recommended that the csp support autonomic data policy management in inter-cloud to fulfil the data 
policy provided by the csc. 
7.9 inter-cloud cognitive data policy management 
it is recommended that the csp support cognitive data policy management in inter -cloud to fulfil the data 
policy provided by the csc. 
8 functional requirements for inter-cloud data isolation and protection 
this clause provides the functional requirements for inter-cloud data isolation and protection derived from 
the use cases described in appendix i. 
8.1 datasets placement policies among different csps 
it is recommended that csps support dataset placement policies for data -intensive app lications in 
geographically distributed data centres. 
note 1 – the conditions of placement policy include, but are not limited to, the time cost of data transmission, storage 
space, network performance and dataset dependencies. 
note 2 – dataset placement policies themselves lie outside the scope of this recommendation. for example, in some 
specific scenario, because the same set of raw data needs to be acces sed by many cscs, duplication/splitting can be 
selected as part of the dataset placement policies. 
8.2 data movement regulation across geographical borders 
it is recommended that the csp identify the different data movement regulations once the data needs to 
flow across geographical borders and provides the solution, if necessary and possible. 
it is recom mended that the csp support the mechanisms to monitor the validity of the data movement 
regulations at geographical borders and provides the negotiation, if necessary and possible. 
9 functional requirements for inter-cloud data management 
this clause provi des the functional requirements for inter -cloud data management derived from the use 
cases described in appendix i. 
9.1 inter-cloud data use policies 
it is required that the csp support data use policy in order to realize a csc request. 
it is recommended that the csp integrate and validate services from multiple csps as an aspect of inter-cloud 
data use policy. 
it is recommended that the csp support inter-cloud data classification in order to realize a csc request. 
