1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
162  
table i.7 – a use case for cloud service cancellation 
derived 
requirements 
– cloud service deregistration (see clause 7.2) 
– automation of service deregistration (see clause 7.2) 
– notification of service deregistration (see clause 7.2) 
– request for maintaining cloud service (see clause 7.2) 
 
table i.8 – a use case for sla establishment in cloud service brokerage 
title a use case for sla establishment in cloud service brokerage. 
description this use case describes sla establishment among a csn: cloud service broker, csps and cscs. 
sla is a part of the cloud service agreement that includes cloud service level objectives ( slo) 
and cloud service qualitative objectives for the covered cloud service(s) [ b-iso/iec 19086-1]. 
since a csc communicates with a cs n: cloud service broker to consume a cloud service, the 
csn: cloud service broker is responsible for establishing a sla with the csc. also, csps need to 
provide service level information to the csn: cloud service broker  so that the csn: cloud 
service broker understands feasible service levels. 
a csp determines to sell cloud services though a csn: cloud service broker and the csp 
registers cloud service information including service level in csb workspace. for instance, the 
csp can provide "service availabil ity" service level which can be expressed as a percentage of 
uptime to total usage time of a cloud service. the csp registers a lower limit for the availability 
service level (ex: 99.99%) and remedies (e.g., discounting service price) for failure to meet the 
sla to the csn: cloud service broker.  
the csn: cloud service broker verifies that all services with service level descriptions are 
correctly registered by the csp. 
the csn: cloud service broker repackages services, registered by the csp, into brokerage  
services according to business needs such as service customization or service integration. the 
csn: cloud service broker needs to provide service levels of a service which the csc requests 
to the csn: cloud service broker. for instance, the csn: cloud ser vice broker repackages a 
service and offers 99.98% of service availability where the service level of the original service 
registered by the csp is 99.99%. 
the csc, who needs an iaas service satisfying at least 99.90% availability, connects to csb 
workspace and selects a cloud service according to the business requirements. after the csc 
selects a cloud service, the csn: cloud service broker generates a sla document and shares 
the sla document to csc. once the csc accepts terms and conditions in the sla doc ument, a 
sla between the csn: cloud service broker and the csc is established.  
after the sla between the csn: cloud service broker and the csc is established, the csn: cloud 
service broker makes a request to the csp to initiate the service. when the csn: cloud service 
broker makes the request, it is assumed that a sla between the csp and the csn: cloud service 
broker is established according to the service level descriptions registered by the csp.  
roles/sub-roles csp, csn: cloud service broker, csc 
