cloud computing management 2 
 
  453 
3.2.3 management service composing function 
management service composing function provides the ability of composing several small management 
functions into a new  complex management service, so that they can easily provide a new type of 
management functionality without having to change the implementation of the component management 
functions. 
3.2.4 management service deployment function 
management service deploymen t function provides the ability of deploying required services for a 
management task. each management task may need the support of multiple management services, and for 
those services which are not ready for use will appropriately be deployed into some virtualized resources on 
the cloud infrastructure. 
4 abbreviations and acronyms 
this recommendation uses the following abbreviations and acronyms: 
it internet technology 
fs function set 
ne network element 
nef network element function 
p&c perception and control 
vm virtual machine 
5 conventions 
none. 
6 introduction 
the current network m anagement and technologies have the we ak point that when new management 
requirements are proposed, it is difficult to provide a new management service based on the existing services 
using the traditional management technology. it is also hard to compose a small system with simplified 
management functions on demand. 
cloud computing has become one of the mainstream technologies used in telecommunication networks as 
well as internet services. cloud computing technology has the following benefits: high usage rate of physical 
resources, reliable service provision, high extensibility, cost efficient, and service on demand etc. when 
introducing cloud computing technology into network  management domain, it is easy to solve the above 
problems, and it will be very flexible to provide new management services.  
when introducing cloud into network management, it means that different management function blocks can 
be placed into virtual resources, and the virtualized resources can be grouped together to form a composed 
management service that are more powerful to provide complex management functions. it is also capable of 
dealing with large amount of management data, as distributed computing can be carried out on cheap 
servers. 
the term management services used in this recommendation is not the cloud service provided by a network 
operator or a cloud operator. management services are provided by a management system, no matter it is 
based on clo ud or not. a cloud service is provide d by a cloud  service provider to end users for  resource 
virtualization, which provides end users with the cloud computing and/or cloud storing capabilities. 
a cloud-aware management system described in [itu-t y.3521/m.3070] is a management system which can 
be used to manage both traditional telecom munication networks and clo ud computing infrastructures. 
a cloud-based management system  in this recommendation is a management system which is built using 
