1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
358  
the data supplier provides data from different sources to the data broker, which can be accessed by the big 
data service provider (bdsp). the data supplier's activities include: 
− generate data; 
− create metadata information describing the data source(s) and relevant attributes; 
− publish metadata information to access it. 
the data broker serves as the connection between the data supplier and the bdsp. the data broker can act 
as a clearinghouse, open data mart, etc., and its activities include: 
− providing a meta-information registry to data suppliers for publishing their data sources; 
− finding on-line open-data sources and registering corresponding meta-information; 
− providing a service catalogue to the bdsp for searching usable data. 
the bdsp supports capabi lities for big data analytics and infrastructure. the bdsp can act as a form of big 
data platform, extension of existing data analytics platform, etc. bdsp activities include: 
− searching data sources (from data broker) and collecting data by requesting and crawling; 
− storing data to a data repository; 
− integrating data; 
− providing tools for data analysis and visualization; 
− supporting data management such as: data provenance, data privacy, data security, data retention 
policy, data ownership. 
the big data service customer (bdc) is the end -user or a system, that uses the results or services from a 
bdsp. the bdc may produce new services or knowledge on consumer activities and furnish them outside 
of the big data ecosystem. bdc activities include: 
− requesting big data services to the bdsp; 
− using the outputs of big data services. 
9 big data sdo activities 
this clause describes sdo's activities with big data in order to identify the current status of standardization. 
note – a summary of each standard item is described in appendix i. 
9.1 itu-t 
itu-t study group 13 (sg13) has been studying requirements, capabilities and mechanisms of future 
networks. 
− q17/13 deals with cloud computing and big data. in november 2015, itu -t sg13 published 
[itu-t y.3600], "big data – cloud computing based requirements and capabilities". 
− q18/13 deals with cloud functional architecture, infrastructure and networking; the draft 
recommendation [itu-t y.bdaas-arch] describes an architecture for bdaas. 
− q7/13 has been studying dpi in support of service/application awareness in evolving networks, and 
initiated draft recommendations about dpi and bddn for supporting big data. 
itu-t sg 17 is responsible for building confidence and security in the use of icts, and deals with the security 
and privacy issues of cloud computing. these activities on cloud computing can be applied to the area of big 
data as well. 
itu-t sg 20 is responsible for iot and its applications, with an initial focus on smart cities and communities 
(sc&c). in november 2015, q2/20 initiated a draft recommendation [itu -t y.iot-bigdata-reqts], "specific 
requirements and capabilities of the internet of things for big data " which describes the characteristics of 
big data in the context of iot. table 9-1 lists the itu-t deliverables and work items related to big data. 
