3 xaas  
 
678  
in addition, the development functionalities include the building of generated and ready-to-deploy software 
packages for naas services, nfs and nss which can be then passed on -boarded for deployment in a cloud 
infrastructure. the software package consists of both the implementation software and also the 
configuration metadata and scripts. 
8 functional components 
this clause presents naas functional components definition and description based on naas functionalities 
identified in clause 7. naas func tional components include instantiated functional components defined in 
[itu-t y.3502] and functional components defined in this recommendation. 
the functional components in a functional architecture represent sets of functions that are re quired to 
perform the cloud computing activities for various roles and sub -roles involved in cloud computing. the 
functional architecture of naas complies with ccra [itu-t y.3502], where dependencies between functions 
are defined in the functional architecture. 
8.1 business support system functional components for naas products 
the functional components for naas products (bss-naas products) are shown in figure 8-1. 
 
figure 8-1 – functional components for bss-naas products 
functional components for bss -naas products include the business support s ystem (bss) functional 
components described in clause 9.2.5.4 of [itu -t y.3502], i.e. , product catalogue functional component, 
account management functional component, subscription f unctional component, billing func tional 
component and accounts functional component. 
these components are used to support naas business related functionalities of the naas csp as described in 
clause 7.1. in particular: 
– the product catalogue functional component provides capabilities for naas cscs to browse the list 
of available naas service offerings which they can purchase, plus a set of capabilities for the 
management of the content of the catalogue which are available to the staff of the naas csp. 
product catalogue entries consist of technical information about each of the naas service offerings 
(capabilities provided by the naas service, interface definitions for the naas service), plus related 
business information such as pricing or rating; 
– the subs cription management  functional co mponent handles subscriptions from naas cscs to 
particular naas services, aiming to record new or changed subscription information from the naas 
csc and ensure the delivery of the subscribed naas service(s) to the naas csc; 

