intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  921 
infrastructure. governance elements include registration, geo -independence, trust anchor, and potentially 
compliance and audit. the standard does not address intra -cloud (within cloud) operation, as this is cloud 
implementation-specific, nor does it address proprietary hybrid-cloud implementations. 
q suppl.65(14)_f5-1
intercloud root
intercloud exchanges
public access
public cloud
public cloud
public access
internal user access
private cloud
public cloud
public access
 
figure 5-1 – reference network inter-cloud topology 
(reference: ieee cloud computing initiative: http://cloudcomputing.ieee.org/intercloud) 
table 5-4 – ieee documents and work items related to cci 
reference name/title status 
ieee p2301 guide for cloud portability and interoperability profiles (cpip) in process 
ieee p2302 standard for intercloud interoperability and federation (siif) in process 
another area ieee plans to explore involves developing environments for creating and testing protocols for 
the ieee p2302 draf t standard for intercloud interoperability and federation. ieee has partnered with 
universities and research institutions around the world that already have cloud computing resources. the 
goal is to create a well-connected standards-based platform. 
5.1.5 ietf 
the ietf is an international organization that develops standards and specifications applicable to the 
internet. 
ietf works on cloud computing interface, and testing methodology  related aspects of cci  cloud related 
working groups are: 
• ietf/l3vpn (layer 3 virtual private networks); 
• ietf/oauth (web authorization protocol); 
• ietf/scim (system for cross-domain identity management); 
• ietf/ippm (ip performance metrics). 
the l3vpn, oauth, system for cross-domain identity management (scim) working groups work on cloud 
computing protocol related aspects of cci. 
the l3vpn working group is responsible for defining, specifying and extending bgp/mpls ip vpns solutions 
for supporting provider-provisioned l3vpn. 
the oauth working group develops oauth for authorization. oauth provides client applications a 'secure 
delegated access' to server resources on behalf of a resource owner. 
the scim working group is developing scim specification that is designed to make managing user identity in 
cloud based applications and services easier. 
