cloud computing management 2 
 
  531 
6.3 inter-cloud data policy-based management 
inter-cloud data policy-based management enables peer csps to control and evaluate who can access which 
inter-cloud data, how to manage inter-cloud data, how to process and use inter-cloud data. 
the main elements of data policy-based management in inter-cloud are as follows. 
– an idpdp collects information about available resources and corresponding properti es of the peer 
csps to decide which of these csp can process and use the inter -cloud data from peer csps. the 
functionalities of idpdp depend on role-based, rule-based and context-based data policies applied 
in inter-cloud computing. 
– an idpep is responsible for enforcing the terms of a csc or csp access. this enforcement is run-time 
based on the capabilities of the idpep. 
– an idpip is a repository of information to support the access decision. 
– an idpap provides inter-cloud administration, management and monitoring of entitlement policies, 
as well as delegation and integration with inter-cloud information repositories. 
figure 6 -1 illustrates how an idpap and idpip are related with each oth er to operate data management 
policies for a data supplier, and sh ows that an idpep, idpdp and idpip cooperate for a data customer to 
access data based on policies set by the data supplier. 
 
figure 6-1 – relationship of main elements in inter-cloud data policy-based management 
in figure 6 -1, the data supplier generates  and provides data, and also sets the data policies. the data 
customer uses the data that is provided by the data supplier and processed by policy-based management. 
the data supplier side-related operations can be described as the following procedure. 
1) the data supplier provides the data to the data repository. 
2) the data repository sends an acknowledgement to the data supplier. 
3) the data supplier sets the corresponding data policies, which are managed by the idpap. 
4) the idpap requests the idpip to store the data policies. 
5) the idpip stores the data policies in the data policies repository. 
6) the data policies repository sends an acknowledgement to the idpip. 
7) the idpip sends an acknowledgement to the idpap. 
8) the idpip sends an acknowledgement to the data supplier. 

