2 cloud computing management  
 
478  
oam  operations, administration and maintenance 
oss  operations support system 
paas  platform as a service 
php  hypertext pre-processor 
qos  quality of service 
ses  software enabled services 
sla  service level agreement 
smi  service management interface 
snmp  simple network management protocol 
vm  virtual machine 
voip  voice over ip 
wan  wide area network 
wifi  wireless fidelity  
5 conventions 
in this recommendation: 
the keywords " is required to " indicate a requirement which must be strictly followed and from which no 
deviation is permitted if conformance to this document is to be claimed. 
the keywords "is recommended" indicate a requirement which is recommended but which is not absolutely 
required. thus this requirement need not be present to claim conformance. 
in the body of thi s recommendation and its appendices, the words shall, shall not, should, and may 
sometimes appear, in which case they are to be interpreted, respectively, as is required to, is prohibited from, 
is recommended, and can optionally. the appearance of such phr ases or keywords in an appendix or in 
material explicitly marked as informative are to be interpreted as having no normative intent. 
6 end to end cloud resource management overview 
the following clauses provide an overview of the general concepts of end to  end cloud computing resource 
management in a telecommunication rich environment. 
6.1 introduction 
one significant value of cloud service providers will most likely be the rapid design, development, deployment 
and management of cloud services. with the ado ption of cloud computing service delivery capabilities, 
multiple service providers  will provide more cl oud services as composite or mash -up services. service 
providers will increasingly have as their objective the rapid delivery of more customized, composi te cloud-
based services tailored to various customer scenarios [b-fgcc part 4]. 
in this recommendation, the term multi-cloud refers to usage scenarios involving the use of various cloud 
services implemented by more than one cloud service provider (csp), th ough this multiplicity of csps may 
not be visible to the cloud service customer (csc). this is not to b e confused with the multi-platform cloud 
computing environment, which is a characteristic of cloud service providers that have chosen to offer a 
variety of programming and runtime execution facilities to assist in the development and execution of cloud 
applications. nor should it be confused with the term "inter -cloud" which refers to the relationship and 
interconnection between csps and not to the overall end to end system. 
cloud applications (also known as cloud workloads) are applications (i.e., software  programs designed for a 
specific purpose) that require execution in the cloud service provider's data centres in order for cloud services 
