framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   113 
3.2.2 dsf local storage: a physical storage to be integrated. 
note – dsf local storage includes on -premises storage such as main memory, non -volatile memory express (nvme), 
solid state disk, hard disk drive, serial attached small computer system interface (scsi), internet scsi storage and 
network-attached storage, object-based storage device, intelligent storage device, etc. and cloud storage with different 
management units such as block, object and file. 
3.2.3 single virtual volume : a virt ual storage unit provided in forms of a block device, disk, or object 
device. 
note – customer of single virtual volume includes an end-user, server, operating system and application. 
3.2.4 storage virtualization: an abstraction of storage resource to provide logical storage. 
note – the abstraction includes consolidating the different type of storages into a virtual storage pool as well as dividing 
a virtual storage pool into a single virtual volume.  
3.2.5 virtual storage pool: a logical storage by integration of dsf local storage. 
4 abbreviations and acronyms 
this recommendation uses the following abbreviations and acronyms: 
api application programming interface 
ccra cloud computing reference architecture 
crud create read update delete 
csc cloud service customer 
csp cloud service provider 
csu cloud service user 
dmp data manipulation provider 
dsf data storage federation 
ftp file transfer protocol 
gui graphical user interface 
iscsi internet small computer system interface 
nfs network file system 
nvme non-volatile memory express 
pcie peripheral component interconnect express 
scsi small computer system interface 
sfp storage federation provider 
sftp ssh file transfer protocol 
smb server message block 
ssd solid state disk 
ssh secure shell 
5 conventions 
in this recommendation: 
the keywords " is required to" indicate a requirement which must be strictly followed and from which no 
deviation is permitted if conformance to this recommendation is to be claimed.  
the keywords "is recommended" indicate a requirement which is recommended but which is not absolutely 
required. thus, this requirement need not be present to claim conformance. 
