 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   73 
8.4.1.1 cloud service developer 
the cloud service developer is a sub-role of cloud service partner  which is responsible for design ing, 
developing, testing and maintaining the implementation of a cloud service. this can involve composing the 
service implementation from existing service implementations. 
the cloud service developer's cloud computing activities include: 
• design, create and maintain service components (clause 8.4.2.1); 
• compose services (clause 8.4.2.2); 
• test services (clause 8.4.2.3). 
note 1 – cloud service integrator and cloud service component developer describe sub-roles of cloud service developer, where 
the cloud service integrator deals with the composition of a service from other services, and where cloud service component 
developer deals with the design, creation, testing and maintenance of individual service components. 
note 2 – this includes service implementa tions and service components that involve interactions with peer cloud service 
providers. 
8.4.1.2 cloud auditor 
the cloud auditor is a sub-role of cloud service partner with the responsibility of conducting an audit of the 
provision and use of cloud services. a cloud audit typically covers operations, performance and security, and 
examines whether a specified set of audit criteria are met. there are a variety of specifications for the audit 
criteria, for example, iso/iec 27002 addresses security considerations. 
the cloud auditor's cloud computing activities include: 
• perform audit (clause 8.4.2.4); 
• report audit results (clause 8.4.2.5). 
8.4.1.3 cloud service broker 
the cloud service broker is a sub-role of cloud service partner that negotiates relationships between cloud 
service customers and cloud service providers. the cloud service broker is not itself a cloud service provider 
and should not be confused with the role of inter -cloud provider (see clause 8.3.1.6). the cloud service 
broker role could be combined with or operate independently of the role of inter-cloud provider. 
the cloud computing activities of a cloud service broker include: 
• acquire and assess customers (clause 8.4.2.6);  
• assess marketplace (clause 8.4.2.7); 
• set up legal agreement (clause 8.4.2.8); 
the marketplace assessment can happen prior to customer acquisition, creating pre-agreements with cloud 
service providers and this can enable cloud service customers  to select cloud service providers  from a 
service catalogue, possibly negotiating service details (e.g., service level objectives) at selection time. 
in either case, the cloud service broker only acts during the contracting phase of the service, between the 
cloud service customer  and cloud service provider . the cloud service broker  is not involved during the 
consumption of the service. in such cases, the activities involve cloud service provider's activities. 
8.4.2 cloud computing activities 
the cloud computing activities which relate to the sub-roles of cloud service partner are shown in figure 8-5. 
