1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
344  
table ii.1 – continuous product improvement 
figure 
 
 
pre-conditions 
(optional) 
the game company has to plan the analytical solution to support application development. 
the solution utilization can vary depending on the new products being launched, so the 
investment in a solution may prove to be ineffective. 
post-conditions 
(optional) 
the game company can define analytical campaigns for each product and optimize the 
analysis effectiveness. only currently required capabilities are used from the bdaas solution 
in a pay-as-you-go model. 
derived requirements – data collection (clause 8.1, requirements 1, 3, 5) 
– data pre-processing (clause 8.2, requirements 3, 4) 
– data storage (clause 8.3, requirements 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7)  
– data analysis (clause 8.4, requirements 5, 10, 11) 
– data visualization (clause 8.5, requirements 1, 3, 4, 5) 
– data security and protection (clause 8.7, requirement 4) 
 
table ii.2 – virtualized distributed cluster service 
title virtualized distributed cluster service 
description a virtual distributed cluster service is a typical web service which makes it easy to have a 
cluster of machines quickly and cost-effectively processing vast amounts of data 
provided by a csp. 
the virtual distributed cluster service uses distributed clustering software as a 
framework, to distribute the customers' data and processing across a resizable cluster of 
virtual machine instances in cloud resource pools. three steps that are often included by 
the csc using a virtual cluster service are: 
1) upload data. the csc:bdsu uploads the data that needs to be analysed to the cloud 
storage space that belongs to the csc:bdsu. in addition the csc:bdsu could use the 
data provided by the csn:dp. 
2) create virtual distributed cluster. the csc:bdsu creates and configures the 
distributed cluster by specifying data inputs, outputs, cluster size, security settings 
and other necessary parameters. 

