2 cloud computing management  
 
452  
1 scope 
this recommendation provides the concept of cloud -based network management functional architecture 
and its fundamental components. 
this recommendation describes the composition of a cloud -based network management functional 
architecture, explain s the functions of each components in the architecture, and also introduce s the 
relationship among the components. 
2 references 
the following itu-t recommendations and other references contain provisions which, through reference in 
this text, constitute provisions of this recommendation. at the time of publication, the editions indicated 
were valid. all recommendations and other references are subject to revision; users of this recommendation 
are theref ore encouraged to investigate the possibility of applying the most recent edition of the 
recommendations and other references listed below. a list of the currently valid itu-t recommendations is 
regularly published. the reference to a document within this recommendation does not give it, as a stand -
alone document, the status of a recommendation. 
[itu-t m.3010] recommendation itu -t m.3010 (02/2000), principles for a telecommunications 
management network. 
[itu-t y.3521/m.3070] recommendation itu-t y.3521/m.3070 (03/2016), overview of end to end cloud 
computing management. 
3 definitions 
3.1 terms defined elsewhere 
this recommendation uses the following terms defined elsewhere: 
3.1.1 network element  [itu-t m.3010] : an architectural concept that represents teleco mmunication 
equipment (or groups/parts of telecommunication equipment) and supports equipments or any item or 
groups of items considered belonging to the telecommunications environment that perform s network 
element functions (nefs). 
3.1.2 management servic e [itu-t m.3010] : a management service is an offering fulfilling specific 
telecommunications management needs. 
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation 
this recommendation defines the following new terms. 
3.2.1 cloud-based network management 
cloud-based network management is to perform network management functions using cloud computing 
technology, and it can also be used to manage both traditional telecommunication networks and/or cloud 
computing infrastructures. 
3.2.2 management service analysis function 
management service analysis function provides the ability of analyzing each management service in network 
management. each management service is registered in this analyzer functio n, and all the related 
information about this service is analyzed and stored for future use. 
  
