1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
62  
the use cloud service activity typically involves: 
1) the provision of user credentials to enable the cloud service provider to authenticate the user and 
grant access to the cloud service; 
2) the invocation of the cloud service, which then operates and delivers its specified outcomes. 
8.2.2.2 perform service trial 
the perform service trial activity involves using the services of a cloud service provider in order to ensure 
that the cloud service is fit for the cloud service customer's business needs. the cloud services are used on 
a trial basis, with mutual agreement an d understanding between the cloud service provider  and cloud 
service customer. 
the perform service trial activity involves: 
1) the provision of the user credentials to enable the cloud service provider to authenticate the user 
and grant access to the "trial" cloud service; 
2)  the invocation of the "trial" cloud service, which can be tested by the cloud service customer for 
business purposes. 
8.2.2.3 monitor service 
the monitor service activity monitors the delivered service quality with respect to service levels as defined 
in the service level agreement  (sla) between cloud service customer  and cloud service provider . this 
activity utilizes intrinsic monitoring functions of the cloud system. this activity involves: 
• keeping track of how much use is being ma de of each cloud service , and by which users. this 
includes assurance that the use is appropriate; 
• monitoring the integration of the cloud services with customer's existing ict systems to ensure that 
business goals are being met; 
• defining measurement points and performance indicators related to the service in question (e.g., 
service availability, service outage frequency, mean time to repair, responsiveness of the provider's 
help desk, etc.); 
• monitoring, analysing and archiving of these indicator data; 
• comparing the actual service quality that is delivered with the agreed service quality.  
8.2.2.4 administer service security 
the administer service security activity involves: 
• ensuring appropriate security for cloud service customer data that is placed into a cloud computing 
environment  
• putting in place plans for data backup and recovery, and potentially for data duplication and failover; 
• administering security policies; 
• defining encryption and integrity technologies to apply to the cloud service customer data both at 
rest and also in motion;  
• defining the handling of any personally identifiable information (pii) in the cloud service customer 
data. 
8.2.2.5 provide billing and usage reports 
the provide billing and usage reports activity involves preparing reports of the usage of cloud services by the 
customer organization and associated reports of the billing/invoice data which relate to that usage. these 
reports are provided to the csc:business manager. 
8.2.2.6 handle problem reports 
the handle problem reports activity involves the customer -side handling of any reported problems 
associated with the usage of cloud services. this includes: 
• assessing the impact of each problem; 
