video processing and storage 4 
 
  751 
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation 
this recommendation defines the following term: 
3.2.1 cloud storage: a data storage model for enabling service users to have ubiquitous, convenient and 
on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable storage resources, which can be rapidly 
provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service-provider interaction. in cloud storage 
systems, the physical and virtual resources can be dynamically assigned and reassigned according to user 
demand. 
4 abbreviations and acronyms 
this recommendation uses the following abbreviations and acronyms: 
as application system 
cu customer unit 
dvr digital video recorder 
ipu intelligent premises unit 
mcu mobile customer unit 
msu media storage unit 
nvr network video recorder 
pu premises unit 
vs visual surveillance 
vscs visual surveillance cloud storage 
5 conventions 
in this recommendation: 
– the keywords "is required to" indicate a requirement which must be strictly followed and from 
which no deviation is permitted if conformance to this recommendation is to be claimed. 
– the keywords "is recommended" indicate a requirement which is recommended but which is not 
absolutely required. thus this requirement need not be present to claim conformance. 
6 overview 
currently, large -scale visual surveillance system deployment has cont ributed to the explosive growth of 
surveillance video data. moreover, the massive amount of surveillance video data contains a lot of valuable 
information which can be mined to provide more intelligent services. attention is needed to the efficient 
storage of video data and fast access to information of interest to users. 
when the surveillance industry changes to all ip network usage, the network video recorder (nvr), as a main 
component for surveillance video storage, will gradually replace  the existing digital video recorder (dvr).  
however, an nvr which is installed on single physical server may reach the maximum storage or throughput 
limitation due to predefined resource limitations. in addition, the current nvr-based storage model does not 
efficiently support the analysis and mining of the massive amount of video data. 
