 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   233 
– edge cloud: the edge cloud is deployed at the edge of the network accessed by cscs and has a small 
resource capacity. the edge cloud requires specialized hardware resources on purpose; i.e., the 
resources in the edge cloud are constrained due to l imitations of space or power. the edge cloud 
may have different configurations of resources and cloud capabilities types with physical and virtual 
resources depending on a csc's requirements of cloud services and conditions in the deployment 
environment. 
figure 6-2 shows an example of providing real -time service on distributed cloud for the case of a machine 
learning (ml) service. the example has four phases. 
– phase 1 – collecting: end device 1 transfers sensor data to an endpoint of ml training service in the 
core cloud to train the data; 
– phase 2 – training: ml training service trains the data and gets a trained rule at the core cloud; 
– phase 3 – caching: the trained rule is cached from core cloud to regional cloud; the trained rule is 
then cached to edge clouds 1 and 2; 
– phase 4 – forecasting: end devices 1 and 2 transfer sensor data to edge clouds 1 and 2, and then 
edge clouds 1 and 2 perform ml forecasting in real-time processing. the forecasting result is quickly 
delivered to end devices 1 and 2. 
if the ml forecasting service is also processed at the core cloud without the edge cloud, then the end device 
of the csc will receive the forecasting results from the core cloud with high latency. the example in figure 6-
2 highlights how the distri buted cloud provides benefit to the cloud service in the edge cloud by providing 
low latency and real-time processing. 
 
figure 6-2 – example of providing real-time service on distributed cloud  
for the case of a machine learning service 
note 3 – in this example, it is assumed that the network latency from the end devices to the edge cloud is much lower 
than from the end devices to the core cloud, and that the execution time of the ml forecasting service is faster than the 
ml training service. 

