security 7 
 
  1049 
is a cloud service customer with respect to the first, and a cloud service provider with respect to the cloud 
service customer using its service. this example illustrates the case where this recommendation | 
international standard applies to an organization both as a cloud service customer and as a cloud service 
provider. because cloud service customers and cloud service providers form a supply chai n through the 
design and implementation of the cloud service(s), clause "15.1.3 information and communication 
technology supply chain" of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
the multi-part international standard iso/iec 27036, "information security for supplier relatio nships", 
provides detailed guidance on the information security in supplier relationships to the acquirer and supplier 
of products and services. iso/iec 27036 part 4 deals directly with the security of cloud services in supplier 
relationships. this standard is also applicable to cloud service customers as acquirers and cloud service 
providers as suppliers. 
4.3 relationships between cloud service customers and cloud service providers 
in the cloud computing environment, cloud service customer data is stored, transmitted and processed by a 
cloud service. therefore, a cloud service customer's business processes can depend upon the  information 
security of the cloud service. without sufficient control over the cloud service, the cloud service customer 
might need to take extra precautions with its information security practices. 
before entering into a supplier relationship, the cloud service customer needs to select a cloud service, taking 
into account the possible gaps between the cloud service customer's information security requirements and 
the information security capabilities offered by the service. once a cloud service is selected, the cloud service 
customer should manage the use of  the cloud service in such a way as to meet its information security 
requirements. in this relationship, the cloud service provider should provide the information and technical 
support that are necessary to meet the cloud service customer's information security requirements. when 
the information security controls provided by the cloud service provider are preset and cannot be changed 
by the cloud service customer, the cloud service customer may need to implement additional controls of its 
own to mitigate risks. 
4.4 managing information security risks in cloud services 
cloud service customers and cloud service providers should both have information security risk management 
processes in place.  they are advised to refer to iso/iec 27001 for the requirements to conduct risk 
management in their infor mation security management systems, and to refer to iso/iec 27005 for further 
guidance on information security risk management itself.  iso 31000, to which iso/iec 27001 and iso/iec 
27005 conform, can also help general understanding of risk management. 
in c ontrast to the general applicability of the information security risk management processes, cloud 
computing has its own types of risk sources, including threats and vulnerabilities, which are derived from its 
features, e.g., networking, scalability and elasticity of the system, resource sharing, self-service provisioning, 
administration on -demand, cross-jurisdictional service provisioning, and limited visibility into the 
implementation of controls. annex b provides references that give information on these risk sources and 
associated risks in the provision and use of cloud services. 
the controls and implementation guidance given in clauses 5 to 18 and annex a of this recommendation | 
international standard address cloud computing specific risk sources and risks. 
4.5 structure of this standard 
this recommendation | international standard is structured in a format similar to  iso/iec 27002. this 
recommendation | international standard includes clauses 5 to 18 of iso/iec 27002 by stating the 
applicability of its texts at each clause and paragraph. 
when objectives and controls specified in iso/iec 27002 are applicable without a need for any additional 
information, only a reference to iso/iec 27002 is provided. 
  
