5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
922  
the ippm working group works on testing methodology related aspects of cci. 
the ippm working group develops and maintains standard metrics that can be applied to the quality, 
performance, and reliability of internet data delivery services and applications running over transport layer 
protocols (e.g., tcp, udp) over ip. 
some cci related individual internet drafts have also  been submitted to ietf. 
the draft cloud reference framework presents a cloud reference framework that intends to provide a basis 
for designing interoperable cloud services and their integration into existing open internet and enterprise it 
infrastructures [draft-khasnabish-cloud-reference-framework]. 
table 5-5 – ietf documents and work items related to cci 
reference name/title status 
ietf rfc 2330 framework for ip performance metrics published 
ietf rfc 4110 a framework for layer 3 provider-provisioned virtual 
private networks 
published 
ietf rfc 6749 the oauth 2.0 authorization framework published 
i-d. draft-ietf-scim-core-schema-03 system for cross-domain identity management: core 
schema 
draft 
i-d. draft-khasnabish-cloud-reference-
framework 
cloud reference framework draft 
5.1.6 iso/iec jtc1 
iso/iec jtc 1 is the joint technical committee 1 of the international organization for standardization (iso) 
and the international electrotechnical commission (iec). its purpose as a technical committee is to develop, 
maintain, promote, and facilitate standards in the fields of it and informati on and commun ication 
technology (ict). 
the scope of jtc1/sc38 (subcommittee 38 of jtc1, distributed application platforms and services (daps)) is 
standardization for interoperable daps including web services, service oriented architecture (soa) and cloud 
computing. 
the wg3 (working group on cloud computing) of jtc1/sc38 works on definitions related aspects of cci. 
jtc1/sc38 developed overview and vocabulary [ iso/iec wd 17788 ] and reference architecture of cloud 
computing [iso/iec dis 17789]. 
iso/iec jtc 1/sc 38 (specifically wg 3: cloud computing) and itu-t/sg 13 form the collaborative teams on 
cloud computing overview and vocabulary (ct -ccvocab) and cloud compu ting reference architecture 
(ct-ccra). the purpose of the collaboration is to develop a common text, in the for m of a new standard, 
between the two groups based on two documents: draft new recommendation y.ccdef cloud computing 
definition and vocabulary (from itu-t q.26/13), and iso/iec wd 17788 – cloud computing vocabulary and 
iso/iec wd 17789 – cloud computing reference architecture (from iso/iec jtc 1/sc 38/wg 3). 
cloud computing interoperability (cci) is defined in ct-ccvocab as follows: 
interoperability in the context of cloud computing includes the ability of a cloud service customer (csc) to 
interact with a c loud service and exchange information according to a prescribed method and obtain 
predictable results. 
interoperability also includes the ability for one cloud service to work with other cloud services, either 
through a cloud service provider -to-provider r elationship, or where a csc uses multiple different cloud 
services in some form of composition to achieve their business goals. 
