intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  869 
based on the reference architecture described in [itu -t y.3502], the interworking involved in csc -csp 
relationship and corresponding test objective can be identified as follows: 
• interworking between csc and csp's service integration component. 
test objective is to verify that csp can provide connections to csp's services for csc. 
• interworking between csc and csp's authentication and identities management component 
test objective is to verify that csp can provide capabilities relating to user identities and the 
credentials required to authenticate users are provided when csc access cloud services and related 
administration and business capabilities. 
• interworking between csc and csp's authorization and security policy management component 
test objective is to verify that csp can provide capabilities for the control and application of 
authorization for csc to access specific capabilities or data. 
• interworking between csc and csp's product catalogue component 
test objective is to verify that the csp can provide capabilities for browsing available service list, and 
capabilities for management of the content of catalogue. 
• interworking between csc and csp's account management csc  
test objective is to verify that the csp can provide capabilities for managing cloud service 
relationships, including management of contracts, subscription to cloud service, entitlemen ts, 
service pricing and policies that apply to the treatment of csc data. 
• interworking between csc and csp's subscription management component 
test objective is to verify that the csp can handle subscriptions from csc to particular cloud services, 
aiming to record new or changed subscription information from the customer and ensure the 
delivery of the subscribed service(s) to the customer. 
• interworking between csc and csp's monitoring and report component 
test objective is to verify that csp can provide capabilities monitoring the cloud computing activities 
of other functional components throughout the csp 's system and providing reports on the 
behaviour of the cloud service provider's system. 
• interworking between csc and csp's service access 
test objective is to verify that csp can provide service access capabilities that provide access offered 
by csp, perform authentication of the csc and establish authorization to use particular capabilities 
of the cloud service. if authorized, the service access capa bilities invoke the cloud service 
implementation which performs the request. 
• interworking between csc and csp's service capabilities 
test objective is to verify that csp can provide service capabilities which consist of the necessary 
software required to implement the service offered to csc. 
• interworking between csc and csp's resource abstraction and control 
test objective is to verify that csp can provide access to the physical computing resources through 
software abstraction and to offer qualities such as rapid elasticity, resource pooling and on-demand 
self-service.  
• interworking between csc and csp's physical resources 
test objective is to verify that the operational support systems can manage all the elements of the 
physical resources (e.g., computing resources, storage resources, and network resources). 
for interoperability testing between csc and csp, the interoperability testing target should cover the 
interworking between csc and csp described above. a set of functional test cases need to be developed 
based on the corresponding test objectives, and per form functional test to determine if csc interoperate 
with csp. figure 3 shows the relationships among functional components and functions for the "use cloud 
service" activity between csc and csp according to clause a.1.1 of [itu-t y.3502]. 
