1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
380  
− accounting and charging : it is recommended that the cloud services provided by a csp support 
various accounting and charging models and policies. 
− efficient service deployment: it is recommended that the cloud services provided by a csp enable 
the efficient use of resources for service deployment. 
− interoperability: it is recommended that the cloud services provided by a csp  comply with 
appropriate specifications and/or standards for allowing these systems to work together. 
− portability: it is recommended that the cloud services provided by a csp s upport the portability of 
software assets and data of cloud service customers (cscs) with minimum disruption. 
− service access: a csp is recommended to provide cscs with access to cloud services from a variety 
of user device s. it is recommended that cs cs be provided with a consistent experience when 
accessing cloud services from different devices. 
− service availability, service reliability and quality assurance : it is recommended that the csp 
provides end-to-end quality of service assurance, high levels of reliability and continued availability 
of cloud services according to the service level agreement (sla) with the csc. 
7 overview of cloud computing standard roadmap 
7.1 introduction to standards development organizations (sdos) for cloud computing 
7.1.1 itu-t sg13 
study group 13 is responsible for studies relating to the requirements, architectures, capabilities and 
mechanisms of future networks including studies relating to service awareness, data awareness, 
environmental awareness and socio -economic awareness of future networks. it is responsible for studies 
relating to cloud -computing technologies, big data, virtualization, resource management, reliability and 
security aspects of the considered network architectures. 
– q17/13 (requirements, ecosystem, and general capabilities for cloud computing and big data) 
 the primary focus of this question is to provide the necessary overall frameworks, definitions and 
ecosystems, including requirements and capabilities, related to the integration or support of cloud 
computing and big data models and technologies in telecommunication ecosystems. also the 
relationship between cloud computing and big data is developed. this question is intended to 
develop new recommendations for: 
• cloud computing and big data definitions, overview, ecosystem and use cases; 
• cloud computing and big data requirements and capabilities; 
• requirements for interoperability data portability and exchange information in cloud computing 
and big data; 
• relationship between cloud computing and big data; 
– q18/13 (cloud functional architecture, infrastructure and networking) 
 the main focus  of this question is to provide cloud computing architectures, cloud computing 
infrastructure and cloud networking views related to the integration and support of the cloud 
computing paradigm and technologies in telecommunication ecosystems. another focus of this 
question is to provide big data architectures related to the integration and support of the big data 
paradigm and technologies in telecommunication ecosystems. 
 this question is intended to develop new recommendations for: 
• cloud computing functional architectures supporting cloud service categories (e.g., naas, iaas, 
paas, bdaas and xaas);  
• cloud computing functional architectures of inter-cloud; 
• cloud computing infrastructure including cloud networking aspects (e.g., for the support of 
network slicing); 
• big data functional architectures including big data exchange functional architecture and cloud-
computing-based big data architecture. 
