 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   339 
table i.5 – mobile network user behaviour big data analysis 
title mobile network user behaviour big data analysis 
description telecom operators use big data application services to analyse internet accessing behaviour of 
mobile network users. telecom mobile network users use a 3g/4g network to access mobile 
internet services (web browsing, social networking, e-commerce, music, video, mobile 
television, etc.) using mobile devices, such as mobile phones, tablet computers, pdas and so on. 
optical splitter and deep packet inspection (dpi) devices have been deployed along with the 
pdsn or serving general packet radio service support no de (sgsn) devices. dpi devices capture 
the data packets of mobile network devices from the optical splitter and extract the internet 
access attributes information. telecom operators set up private big data infrastructure using 
cloud computing technologies or buy services from the csp:bdip and build big data application 
services or buy services from the csp:bdap. telecom operators could push and promote value 
added services, applications and advertisements for suitable mobile network users such as a 
csc:bdsu. privacy rules are followed, if applicable. 
roles/sub-roles – csn:dp 
– csp:bdap  
– csp:bdip 
– csc:bdsu 
figure 
 
pre-conditions – the csn:dp can provide the raw data which reflects mobile network users' behaviour.  
post-conditions – the csp:bdap can have responsibility for providing analysis results of mobile network user 
behaviour to the csc:bdsu. the analysis results show the users' habits o f using network 
services, such as in which time slots the users may access which websites or applications.  
– the csc:bdsu pushes and promotes the value added services, applications and 
advertisements for suitable mobile network users. 
derived 
requirements 
– data collection (refer to clause 8.1, requirement 1) 
– data storage (refer to clause 8.3, requirement 1)  
– data analysis (refer to clause 8.4, requirements 2, 7, 12 )  
– data application (refer to clause 8.4, requirement 13, clause 8.7, req uirement 1)  
 

