 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   145 
4 abbreviations and acronyms 
this recommendation uses the following abbreviations and acronyms: 
api application programming interface 
csb cloud service brokerage 
csc cloud service customer 
csn cloud service partner 
csp cloud service provider 
id identification 
os operating system 
sla service level agreement 
slo service level objectives 
url uniform resource locator 
5 conventions 
in this recommendation: 
the keywords "is required" indicate a requirement which must be strictly followed and from which no 
deviation is permitted if conformance to this document is to be claimed. 
the keywords "is recommended" indicate a requirement which is recommended but which is not absolutely 
required. thus this requirement need not be present to claim conformance. 
6 overview of cloud service brokerage  
6.1 introduction to cloud service broker 
the cloud service broker is a sub -role of cloud service partner (csn) that negotiates relationships between 
cloud service customers (cscs) and cloud service providers (csps). the cloud service broker is not itself a 
cloud service provider and should not be confused with the role of inter -cloud provider [itu-t y.3502]. the 
role of cloud service broker could be combined with or operate independently of the role of inter -cloud 
provider. only three activities of cloud service broker have been identified in [itu-t y.3502] such as (i) acquire 
and assess customers, (ii) assess marketplace and (iii) set up legal agreement. a detailed description for these 
activities follows: 
– acquire and assess customers: the cloud service broker provides cscs with available cloud services 
accompanied by associated information such as service level agreements (slas) and contract terms. 
the cloud service broker also assesses csc's needs and requirements; 
– assess marketplace : the cloud service broker constructs product catalogues by surveying the 
product offerings with technical and business information from csps. any changes of the contents 
of corresponding product catalogues are notified to the cloud service broker. if there is a request 
on cloud service from a csc, the cloud service broker performs a matching process between product 
offerings and csc's requirements including technical, business and regulatory aspects; 
– set up legal agreement: the cloud service broker negotiates service agreements between the csc 
and the csp in terms of legal agreements as well as terms and prices to complete a contract.  
after the contract between a csc and a csp by the "set up legal agreement" activity, the csc uses the selected 
cloud services. in order for the csc to use the cloud services, additional considerations are required as 
follows:  
– a csc uses cloud services from csps through access information delivered by the cloud service 
broker; 
– the cloud service broker also manages and monitors the cloud services.  
