2 cloud computing management  
 
480  
6.4 resource management for a single cloud service provider 
the overall resource management should be viewed from the point of view of the lifecycle management of 
a cloud application. the app lication, as it passes through its lifecycle, must be acted upon by traditional 
business process es associated with management system functions such as administration, provisioning, 
configuration, service assurance and charging. 
as shown in figure 1, in the simpler case of an application that resides on a single cloud computing system, 
it becomes dependent on two distinct categories of virtualized resources. the dotted arrows depict the active 
coordinated relationship that must be maintained between resources at each level. 
y.3520(13)_f01
application
cloud
virtualized
resources
network
virtualized
resources
 
figure 1 – applications residing on a single cloud computing system 
note – although figure 1 divides virtualized resources into "cloud" and "network", cloud computing considers all 
resources at the same level [itu-t y.3502]. 
a resource management issue requiring further work is how to use existing cloud management systems to 
maintain awareness of which logical and physical reso urces are actually relevant to a specific instance of a 
specific application at any given point in time. 
due to the rapid elasticity and scalability characteristic of cloud computing [ itu-t y.3500 ], the cloud 
computing system can configure additional resources to handle changing application demands; there are 
additional requirements, needing further analysis, for dynamically reconfiguring the underlying network 
configurations in response to the changing resources at various components of the cloud computing system. 
this issue arises both within the internal network fabric of large cloud computing data centres, between the 
interconnecting networks in hybrid scenarios, and across transport networks and content delivery networks. 
another issue that arises is the division of responsibility between an internal cloud computing virtualization 
management system and an external management system. although the cloud computing virtualizatio n 
function can typically manage its own physical and logical resource allocations for supported applications, an 
external management system may be desired to dynamically reallocate resources in a coordinated fashion 
across the three levels shown in figure 1 or to track and have knowledge of those changing relationships. 
as shown in figure 2, the capability of a management system to both manage resource allocations and track 
their instantaneous state could enable that management system to provide the informa tion necessary to 
display the status of a given service and all of the underlying relevant resources, at any given point in time. 
from the point of view of the quality of service of resource management, the issue is how to ensure that the 
service assurance systems are receiving relevant telemetry from the cloud computing or network resources 
actually involved in delivering a particular instance of a service. the issue is less concerned with what 
telemetry data needs to be managed, as each dataset is often u nique to a given management system 
implementation, but is more concerned with how to use the cloud computing system to do so effectively. 
