framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   217 
table ii.4 – using an interconnect network for high-performance service – use case 
title using interconnect network for high-performance service 
description when a cloud service user requests a high performance computing service (e.g., parallel 
processing, big data processing, etc.), a cloud service operations manager is responsible for 
setting up an interconnection network among processing units, because multiple computing 
resources are required to perform such a service. 
ethernet is a widely used protocol for the interconnection network but the cloud service 
operations manager may provide other protocols. therefore, depending on the protocols, 
the performance of the interconnect network is determined and the cloud service operations 
manager can select and provide the appropriate interconnect network to the cloud service 
user. 
for utilizing this interconnect network system, a cloud service user can employ socket based 
applications in the case of using ethernet protocol. for other networks, a cloud service user is 
provided with applications per application program interfaces (api) from a cloud service 
operations manager. this is due to the fact that, a cloud operations manager also has a 
responsibility to provide a device driver and api for utilizing the propriety network.  
occasionally, a cloud service user may request multiple physical machines for such a service. 
in this case, a cloud operations manager has a responsibility to support multiple shared 
resources through the network. since the physical machines are independent of network 
devices, this network would be arranged as cabling in an interconnect network.  
when a cloud service operations manager makes this cabled network, it is constructed to 
support various topologies (e.g., ring, mesh, tree) to meet the different performance levels of 
the service requested from a cloud service user.  
roles/sub-roles csc: cloud service user and csp: cloud service operations manager 
figure 
 
pre-conditions 
(optional) 
csc: cloud service user wants to use a high performance computing application.  
post-conditions 
(optional) 
physical machines can run a high performance  computing application through a system 
interconnect network and cabled network. 

