monitoring 6 
 
   955 
see table 7-6. 
table 7-6 – parameters collected to monitor a service chain 
metric name description  unit 
nfs network function status normal/fail 
nf start time of network function start s 
nf stop time of network function stop s 
nf migration time that is needed to move a nf from two 
predefined resources s 
sc start time of a service chain established s 
sc stop time of a service chain destroy s 
7.1.6 energy consumption 
voltage or power use out of the permissible range can damage electrical components or cause system failure. 
if the fan stops working, the server overheats, is damaged and goes out of service. so, it is important to 
monitor the voltage or wattage, fan and temperature to ensure that they are within safe operating limits. 
in order to handle massive amounts  of data generated by consumers and businesses, cloud computing 
typically needs a lot of power. a sharp increase in energy consumption can indicate server load unbalance 
that leads to performance degradation. real -time monitoring is  helpful for avoiding th ese consequences. 
different states of the physical or vms require different power levels. these states can normally be divided 
into six types: named as shutdown, work, idle, dormant, sleep and standby. 
see table 7-7. 
table 7-7 – parameters collected to monitor energy consumption in each state 
metric name description unit 
power of cpu current power of cpu consumption w 
power of gpu current power of gpu consumption w 
power of memory current power of memory consumption w 
power of storage  current power of storage consumption w 
power of network current power of disk consumption w 
power of power systems current power of power system consumption w 
temperature of cpu current temperature of cpu oc 
7.1.7 environment 
the server room environment requires strict control processes for temperature, humidity and power supply. 
a fully automated monitoring system can help prevent overheating of servers and condensation on 
equipment. keeping temperatures within ran ge and carefully monitoring humidity to prevent corrosion or 
static electricity reduce energy consumption and keep servers running smoothly. voltage use out of the 
permissible range can damage electrical components or cause system failure. if the fan stops  working, the 
server overheats, is damaged and goes out of service. so, it is important to monitor the voltage or wattage, 
fan and temperature to ensure that they are within safe operating limits. 
