7 security  
 
1078 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider 
the cloud service customer should request information 
from the cloud service provider of the service 
monitoring capabilities available for each cloud service. 
 
the cloud service provider should provide capabilities 
that enable the cloud service customer to monitor 
specified aspects, relevant to the cloud service 
customer, of the operation of the cloud services. for 
example, to monitor and detect if the cloud service is 
being used as a platform to attack others, or if sensitive 
data is being leaked from the cloud service. appropriate 
access controls should secure the use of the monitoring 
capabilities. the capabilities should provide access only 
to information about the cloud service customer's own 
cloud service instances. 
the cloud service provider should provide 
documentation of the service monitoring capabilities to 
the cloud service customer. 
monitoring should provide data consistent with the 
event logs described in clause 12.4.1 and assist with sla 
terms. 
cld.13.1 network security management 
the objective specified in clause 13.1 of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
cld.13.1.4 alignment of security management for virtual and physical networks 
control 
upon configuration of virtual networks, consistency of configurations between virtual and physical networks 
should be verified based on the cloud service provider's network security policy. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
(no additional implementation guidance) the cloud service provider should define and document 
an information security policy for the configuration of 
the virtual network consistent with the information 
security policy for the physical network. the cloud 
service provider should ensure that the virtual network 
configuration matches the information security policy 
regardless of the means used to create the 
configuration. 
other information for cloud services 
in a cloud computing environment built on virtualization technology, a virtual network is configured on virtual 
infrastructure on a physical network. in such environments, inconsistency of network policies can cause 
system outages or defective access control. 
note – depending on the type of cloud service, the responsibilities for configuring a virtual network can vary between 
a cloud service customer and a cloud service provider. 
  
