1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
334  
appendix i 
 
use cases of cloud computing in support of big data 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
table i.1 – personalization customized service using big data 
title personalization customized service using big data 
description there are lots of network devices such as laptop computers, smart phones, smart pads, 
pdas, health equipment, etc. owners of these devices can access internet and support 
network services in order to get some information, to buy something, to see movies, e tc. 
each activity might be logged such as network access information, records of visiting a 
website as well as usage of a service category in network service providers. this data volume 
can be of a tremendous size due to so many devices accessing internet at same time. 
consequently, data processing can become a big data problem. more meaningful 
information can however be extracted from big data. 
in this scenario, the csp:bdip should have capabilities to collect data and store said data, and 
the csp:bdap should have capabilities to analyse data which are related to the web service 
user's activities. the csp:bdap also has the task of providing the results of analysis to the 
csc:bdsu. 
csp:bdip can store relevant information of the web service user's activities in the big data 
storage and provides this data to the csp:bdap. the csp:bdap can receive requests for 
operations with data and get some other information (e.g., weather information, season, 
holiday information, etc.) from external data sources which are supported by the csn:dp.  
the csp:bdap may know the patterns or preferences of the user through analysis of the 
user's activities and pre-stored information. the csp:bdap can then provide the user's 
pattern information and the user's preferences to the csc:bdsu. such information is very 
helpful in enabling the csc:bdsu to advertise to or support the web service users.  
roles/sub-roles – csp:bdip 
– csp:bdap 
– csn:dp 
– csc:bdsu  
