2 cloud computing management  
 
514  
1 scope 
this recommendation provides the metadata framework for the closed-loop automation lifecycle 
management of network as a service ( naas) service, specifically in the environments of development and 
operations (devops) and continuous integration/continuous delivery (ci/cd). this recommendation covers 
the following aspects: 
– general description of metadata for naas service lifecycle management; 
– metadata in naas service; 
– metadata framework for naas service lifecycle management; 
– naas service operational policy framework. 
this recommendation also provides appendix i describing: 
– metadata applicability in naas service lifecycle management. 
note 1 – the objective in defining a metadata framework of naas service lifecycle management is not to invent new 
metadata, but rather to make the existing metadata interoperable and integrated in the closed -loop automation 
management of naas service, especially in the environments of devops  and ci/cd. 
note 2 – "metadata" in this recommendation refers to naas service data model, naas service operational policy data 
model and naas resource data model. 
2 references 
the following itu-t recommendations and other references contain provisions which, through reference in 
this text, constitute provisions of this recommendation. at the time of publication, the editions indicated 
were valid. all recommendations and other references are subject to revision; users of this recommendation 
are therefore enc ouraged to investigate the possibility of appl ying the most recent edition of the 
recommendations and other references listed below. a list of the currently valid itu-t recommendations is 
regularly published. the reference to a document within this recomme ndation does not give it, as a stand -
alone document, the status of a recommendation. 
[itu-t x.1601] recommendation itu-t x.1601 (2015), security framework for cloud computing. 
[itu-t y.3512] recommendation itu-t y.3512 (2014), cloud computing – functional requirements of 
network as a service. 
[itu-t y.3515] recommendation itu-t y.3515 (2017), cloud computing – functional architecture of 
network as a service. 
[itu-t y.3522] recommendation itu-t y.3522 (2016), end-to-end cloud service lifecycle 
management requirements. 
3 definitions 
3.1 terms defined elsewhere 
this recommendation uses the following terms defined elsewhere: 
3.1.1 cloud computing [b-itu-t y.3500]: paradigm for enabling network access to a scalable and elastic 
pool of shareable physical or virtual resources with self-service provisioning and administration on-demand. 
note – examples of resources include servers, operating systems, networks, software, applications and storage 
equipment. 
3.1.2 cloud service [b-itu-t y.3500]: one or more capabilities offered via cloud computing invoked using 
a defined interface. 
3.1.3 cloud service customer [b-itu-t y.3500]: party which is in a business relationship for the purpose of 
using cloud services. 
note – a business relationship does not necessarily imply financial agreements. 
