3 xaas  
 
716  
 note 3 – association analysis: this supports some spe cific algorithms to fin d associations between stored 
data. examples of association algorithms include apriori algorithm and frequent pattern growth algorithm. 
apriori algorithm and frequent pattern grow th algorithm are two classical association analysis al gorithms 
which can mine the associations through the frequency of data appearing together in the dataset. 
 note 4 – regression analysis: this supports linear regression and logistic regression and other algorithms, for 
estimating the relationships among data. 
 note 5 – customization of analysis supports the customization of detail data analysis methods according to a 
customer's specific requirements. 
– setting up procedures which enable the analysis using registered analysis methods in the analysis 
function registry; 
– executing analysis process according to the procedures. 
7.1.5 data storage functional component  
the d ata storage functional component is responsible for storing data. this functional component also 
provides different types of storage for different data types and different database types while storing data. 
this functional component provides: 
– provisioning storage considering the various types of data storage, database, and different types of 
data such as structured data, unstructured data, and semi-structured data; 
 note 1 – data storage types include block storage, file storage and object storage.  
 note 2 – databases include relation database, no sql database. 
 note 3 – unstructured data can include mass data, such as log files, video, audio data, email, web pages, data 
generated on social-media sites. semi-structured data can include data stored in xml, html and other format 
documents. structured data can include record data persistent in databases (see [itu-t y.3600]). 
– allocating the appropriate storage when a storage usage request is initiated; 
– releasing storage when the storage usage is terminated; 
 note 4 – the data storage functional component interworks with the data collection functional  component 
(see clause 7.1.1) to identify the characteristics of the data such as data type, data volume and so on. 
– storing data on various storage  systems. it supports storage mirroring and provides data 
fragmentation to distribute and store data on distributed storage systems. this provides the ability 
to update data; 
 note 5 – distributed storage system stores data on multiple independent storages. it adopts the 
 scalable system structure, and uses multiple storage servers which are use d to share the storage load.   
 note 6 – storage mirroring is the replication of logical storage volumes onto separate physical disks.  
– data indexing, stored together with data, to improve the speed of data retrieval operations. 
7.2 resource layer functional components 
the resource abstraction and control functional component, in the resource layer functional components, is 
extended for bdaas (see figure 7-3) with the following functional components: 
– distributed processing functional component (see clause 7.2.1). 
 
figure 7-3 – resource abstraction and control functional component extended for bdaas 

