3 xaas  
 
564  
table iii.3 – scenario of daas user 
legend use case 
• task workers: if an organization includes structured task workers, such as in call centres 
and retail branches, daas can provide a more cost-effective and productive user 
experience because these user roles do not typically need access to multiple applications 
to complete business processes. additionally, there are situations when the location is 
simply not capable of supporting a fully functioning client computer; instead, thin -client 
solutions are more applicable. the same experience can be provided even if  the client 
computer is a legacy computer. this type of deployment can extend the reach of 
applications within the enterprise and is a valuable way to deliver the right business tools 
in a cost-effective way.  
• contractor/offshore workers: many companies are leveraging workforce experience from 
around the world. organizations will need to provide access to applications for users 
located both remotely and internationally. in order to provide access to resources while 
respecting corporate policies, providing a virtual desktop or virtual desktop pool becomes 
very attractive for organizations. this allows users to receive a first-class client on the 
network while allowing the organization to control where the virtual desktop is running, 
how the virtual desktop is accessed, how data is being run on the client computer and 
where data is stored.  
• remote workers in branch offices: in an environment that relies on remote or branch 
offices, daas can provide enhanced capabilities to these sites and reduce the network  
bandwidth that the required applications use. for example, a bank might have essential 
financial software applications that would not be cost-effective to deploy and maintain in 
every branch. with daas, the software can be available at a central headquart ers and 
accessed as needed by employees in different locations. a centralized-applications strategy 
often results in a reduction of application server infrastructure at various branches or 
locations, requiring much less maintenance and on-site support from the home office 
information technology (it) staff. 
high-level figure 
describing the use 
case  
 
derived 
requirements  
– single sign-on access control 
– service continuity 
– diversity of daas client 
– managing and operating pre-configured environment 
– maintaining daas user status 
– csc environment backup 
– standard transport protocols support  

