2 cloud computing management  
 
440  
5) service activation. this functionality is responsible for the activation of a cloud service based on the 
specific service configuration. 
10.3.2 service assurance functionalities 
this covers a set of functionalities for the assurance management of cloud servi ces. these functionalities 
include service problem management, service performance management, service quality management and 
service test management. 
10.3.2.1 service problem management 
this set of functionalities is responsible for receiving service affecting csc problems as well as csp 
infrastructure faults. these functionalities analyse and resolve service problems in an efficient manne r, 
tracking these problems and reporting them. this includes: 
1) service problem reception. this functionality receives problems that are perceived to be service 
affecting; 
2) service problem monitoring. this functionality monitors the operational status of cloud services; 
3) service problem analysis. this functionality diagnoses service problems. it correlates csc problems 
with resource faults, and prioritize service problems appropriately; 
4) service problem correction and resolution this functionality resolves the service problem back to a 
normal operational state as efficiently as possible; 
5) service problem tracking and management. this functionality assures that service problems are 
assigned, coordinated, and restored efficiently, escalating as needed; 
6) service problem reporting. this functionality  reports the status of service prob lems. this includes 
operational reports, management reports, reports against various metrics, as well as information 
needed by other related management and operations functionalities. 
10.3.2.2 service performance management 
this set of functionalities is responsible for monitoring, analysing and reporting on the e2e service 
performance. this includes the following functionalities: 
1) performance monitoring. this functionality collects and monitors service performance parameters; 
2) performance analysing. this functionality is responsible for the analysis and evaluation of services ' 
performance (analysing data received from service performance monitoring, determining the 
causes of changes, providing operations for adapting the performance); 
3) performance reporting. this functionality creates service performance reports on a periodic basis 
or on-demand. 
10.3.2.3  service quality management 
this set of functionalities is responsible for monitoring and managing the e2e quality of services. they allow, 
collect and compare quality related measurements against established services. the results can be optionally 
available to interested parties. this includes the following functionalities: 
1) service quality modelling. this f unctionality establishes what will be monitored and how it will be 
monitored in terms of service quality. this includes the definition of the service quality model and 
its dependencies as establishment of key quality indicators (kqis) and service level objectives (slos), 
accepting input from csc contracts or service definitions, establishment of data sources for 
monitoring; 
2) service quality monitoring. this functionality collects and monitors service quality as determined by 
the established service quality model; 
3) service quality analysing. this functionality analyses and evaluates the quality of services being 
delivered by the csp; 
4) service quality reporting. this functionality generates various reports on service quality and makes 
them available on a periodic basis or on-demand. 
