7 security  
 
1020 
1 scope 
this recommendation clarifies the security responsibilities between cloud service providers (csps) and cloud 
service customers (cscs), and analyses the requirements and categories of security metrics of operational 
security for cloud computing. it defines sets of detailed security measures and security activities for the daily 
operation and maintenance for cloud computing services and infrastructure from the perspective of csps, to 
fulfil the requirements of operational security for cloud computing. 
this recommendation will be helpful for csps to reduce operational risks. the target audiences of t his 
recommendation are csps, such as traditional telecommunication operators and internet service providers 
(isps). 
2 references 
none. 
3 definitions 
3.1 terms defined elsewhere 
this recommendation uses the following terms defined elsewhere: 
3.1.1 cloud computing [b-itu-t y.3500]: paradigm for enabling network access to a scalable and elastic 
pool of shareable physical or virtual resources with self-service provisioning and administration on-demand. 
3.1.2 cloud service [b-itu-t y.3500]: one or more capabilities offered via cloud computing invoked using 
a defined interface. 
3.1.3 cloud service customer [b-itu-t y.3500]: party which is in a business relationship for the purpose 
of using cloud services. 
3.1.4 cloud service partner [b-itu-t y.3500]: party which is engaged in support of, or auxiliary to, activities 
of either the cloud service provider or the cloud service customer, or both. 
3.1.5 cloud service provider [b-itu-t y.3500]: party which makes cloud services available. 
3.1.6 infrastructure a s a service (iaas) [b-itu-t y.3500]: cloud service category in which the cloud 
capabilities type provided to the cloud service customer is an infrastructure capabilities type. 
3.1.7 multi-tenancy [b-itu-t y.3500]: allocation of physical or virtual resources such that multiple tenants 
and their computations and data are isolated from and inaccessible to one another. 
3.1.8 network as a service (naas) [b-itu-t y.3500]: cloud service category in which the capability 
provided to the cloud service customer is transport connectivity and related network capabilities. 
3.1.9 party [b-iso 27729]: natural person or legal person, whether or not incorporated, or a group of 
either. 
3.1.10 platform as a service (paas) [b-itu-t y.3500]: cloud service category in which the cloud capabilities 
type provided to the service customer is a platform capabilities type. 
3.1.11 security challenge [b-itu-t x.1601]: a security "difficulty" other than a direct security threat arising 
from the nature and operating environment of cloud services, including "indirect" threats. 
3.1.12 security domain [b-itu-t x.810]: a set of elements, a security policy, a security authority and a set 
of security-relevant activities in which the set of elements are subject to the security policy for the specified 
activities, and the security policy is administered by the security authority for the security domain. 
3.1.13 security incident [b-itu-t e.409]: a security incident is any adverse event whereby some aspect of 
security could be threatened. 
3.1.14 service level agreement  (sla) [b-iso/iec 20000-1]: documented agreement between the service 
provider and customer that identifies services and service targets. 
