3 xaas  
 
618  
8.5 integration of software applications 
– it is recommended that naas csp supports integration of software applications deployed on the 
naas platform by either the csp or the csc, or both, to allow building of the combined solutions. 
9 functional requirements of naas connectivity 
this clause provides requirements of naas connectivity derived from the use cases described in appendix ii. 
9.1 common control mechanism for naas connectivity 
– it is recommended that the naas connectivity control mechanism p rovided by the naas csp 
supports the negotiation of connectivity parameters  (such as interface characteristics, connection 
endpoints, ip version support, qos, l3/l2vpn type, connectivity extension approach (e.g., clause 10 
of [b-ietf rfc 4364], routing information (e.g., border gateway protocol (bgp) route target). 
– it is recommended that naas csp provides a common naas connectivity control mechanism 
allowing identified naas connectivity to be provided in a secure and qos guaranteed manner. 
– it is recommended that the naas connectivity control mechanism is able to cope with potentially 
different csc identification schemes used on the naas csp side and on the connected endpoint. 
– naas csp can optionally provide isolated connectivity for the network tenants. 
9.2 unified sla for multiple optimized networks 
– it is recommended that naas csp provides network connectivity services using unified sla for csc's 
management of multiple optimized networks in or der to simplify and unify the control and 
management of networks.  
 note – this mechanism allows the csp to create and add new features to their networks to provide high 
quality services which can meet csc's differentiated requirements. 
– it is recommended that composite naas services policy should be expressed in the sla. 
 note 1 – naas service can be a composite service, where the service consists of more than one naas service. 
 note 2 – this requirement is also applicable to the naas application and the naas platform. 
9.3 leveraging transport networks dynamically 
– it is recommended that naas csp leverages transport networks dynamically from multiple choices 
of physical and virtual networks for the purpose of providing network connectivity services, such as 
recovery, bod, qos guarantee, etc.  
 note – the transport networks can be heterogeneous in terms of technology and administrative domain.  
9.4 unified network control mechanism 
– it is recommended that naas csp provides a unified control mechanism for the end -to-end naas 
connectivity given to a csc. 
 note – naas con nectivity could be provided either by multiple heterogeneous networks or by a network 
employing one or more naas platforms or applications, which perform(s) network functions . 
9.5 elastic network reconfiguration 
– it is recommended for the csp to provide the elastic network reconfiguration in order to match the 
computing and storage elasticity and to maintain service continuity. 
9.6 seamless and end-to-end solution of bandwidth allocation 
– it is recommended that naas csp provides seamless and end -to-end so lution of bandwidth 
allocation independent of network technology and architecture. 
