3 xaas  
 
554  
6.2 general configuration for daas  
figure 6-3 shows the general configuration environment for daas logical components. the environment is 
based on a traditional client -server model and mainly consists of a daas client, a connection manager, a 
resource pool, a virtualization infrastructure and a virtual desktop delivery. detailed interaction among these 
daas logical components are described in clause 6.3.  
note 1 – relationship between daas logical components and the cloud computing reference architecture in [b-itu-t 
fgcc2] is described in appendix i. further study of the daas architecture is needed to map the daas logical components 
to the cloud computing reference architecture. 
 
figure 6-3 – general configuration for daas  
the main logical daas components, shown in figure 6-3, are as follows:  
• daas client 
 daas users can be provided with their virtual desktop remotely through their daas clients. to access 
a daas platform, d aas users can employ one of the methods among dedicated software, general -
purpose web browser and firmware depending on the type of daas client. more detailed 
information regarding daas clients is provided in appendix ii.  
 note 2 – depending on the type of daas client, when the daas client is booted up, it starts a log in procedure 
to a corresponding virtual desktop with access information such as its identification, password and ip address. 
in case of termination of the corresponding virtual desktop, the daas client recognizes it and begins a log out 
procedure which includes turning off the virtual machine (vm) or the daas client. 
• connection manager 
 this logical component is responsible for connecting a daas user to an available and suitable virtual 
desktop. the connection manager's tasks include: 
– user authentication and licence verification to validate the user and the user's application;  
– assignment of a virtual desktop; 
– coordination of a delivery protocol to be used between a daas client and a daas platform; and  
– allocation of necessary storage.  
 in addition, the connection manager is responsible for load balancing and managing the number of 
users per daas platform, reconnecting a user to the virtual desktop. 
 the connection manager uses the resource pool and the virtualization infrastructure to allocate the 
required resources such as computing, network and storage in virtualization infrastructure. 
• resource pool 
 resource pool is an abstraction of software resources such as os, applications and user profiles. the 
software resources can be loaded from the resource pool to given resources in the virtualization 
infrastructure. a resource pool can offer provisioning information regarding the software resources 
on request by a connection manager.  
 note 3 – a user profile can contain individual information about hardware configuration (i.e., central 
processing unit (cpu), random access memory (ram), i/o), used os, selected applications and user computing 
environment information (e.g., display resolution and internet access means).  

