7 security  
 
1074 
18.2 information security reviews 
the objective specified in clause 18.2 of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
18.2.1 independent review of information security 
control 18.2.1 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
the cloud service customer should request documented 
evidence that the implementation of information 
security controls and guidelines for the cloud service is 
in line with any claims made by the cloud service 
provider. such evidence could include certifications 
against relevant standards. 
the cloud service provider should provide documented 
evidence to the cloud service customer to substantiate 
its claim of implementing information security controls. 
where individual cloud service customer audits are 
impractical or can increase risks to information security, 
the cloud service provider should provide independent 
evidence that information security is implemented and 
operated in accordance with the cloud service 
provider's policies and procedures. this should be made 
available to prospective cloud service customers prior 
to entering a contract. a relevant independent audit as 
selected by the cloud service provider should normally 
be an acceptable method for fulfilling the cloud service 
customer's interest in reviewing the cloud service 
provider's operations, provided sufficient transparency 
is provided. when the independent audit is impractical, 
the cloud service provider should conduct a self-
assessment, and disclose its process and results to the 
cloud service customer. 
18.2.2 compliance with security policies and standards 
control 18.2.2 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
18.2.3 technical compliance review 
control 18.2.3 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
  
