5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
836  
ii.5 reference point: i-ssm-psm 
the subscription management functional component interacts with peer service management functional 
component through i-ssm-psm to access the bsss of a peer csp for subscription. 
ii.6 reference point: i-blg-ipm 
the billing functional component interacts with incident and problem management functional component 
through i-blg-ipm to get inter-cloud incident and problem information for billing. 
ii.7 reference point: i-blg-mr 
the billing functional component interacts with monitoring and reporting  functional component through 
i-blg-mr to get inter-cloud service monitoring information for billing. 
ii.8 reference point: i-blg-sc 
the billing functional component interacts with service catalogue functional component through i-blg-sc to 
get inter-cloud service catalogue information for billing. 
ii.9 reference point: i-blg-sp 
the billing functional component interacts with service provisioning functional component through i -blg-sp 
to get inter-cloud service provisioning information for billing. 
ii.10 reference point: i-blg-sa 
the billing functional component interacts with service automation functional component through i -blg-sa 
to get inter-cloud service automation information for billing. 
ii.11 reference point: i-blg-spm 
the billing functional component interacts with service policy management  functional component through 
i-blg-spm to get inter-cloud service policy information for billing. 
ii.12 reference point: i-blg-slm 
the billing functional component interacts with service level management  functional component through 
i-blg-slm to get inter-cloud service level information for billing. 
ii.13 reference point: i-blg-psm 
the billing functional  component interacts with service level management  functional component through 
i-blg-psm to exchange with peer csp's billing. 
ii.14 reference point: i-sp-sc 
the service catalogue functional component interacts with service p rovisioning functional componen t 
through i-sp-sc to provision inter-cloud service by using inter-cloud service templates. 
ii.15 reference point: i-slm-sc 
the service catalogue functional component interacts with service level management functional component 
through i-slm-sc to exchange service level information. 
ii.16 reference point: i-psm-sc 
the service catalogue functional component interacts with peer service management functional component 
through i-psm-sc to access the inter-cloud service catalogue of a peer csp. 
