5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
826  
this function includes the following. 
– service provisioning automation. this allows automation of workflows to realize inter-cloud service 
deployment between peer csps, without manual operations. 
 note 1 – typical use cases of service provision automation include: automatic recovery, scale -in and scale -
out, switchover and switchback of cloud services with peer csps. 
– service configuration automation. this allows automation of workflows to realize automated inter-
cloud service configuration, without manual operations. 
 note 2 – service provisioning and configuration automation allows for policy-based automated workflows for 
inter-cloud services. 
7.2.6 service level management 
the service level management function manages the service levels of a particular inter-cloud service to meet 
the requirements of the sla. 
this function includes the following. 
– sla negotiation. this allows for negotiating inter -cloud service level information, e.g., capacity, 
performance, between peer csps. 
– service level tracking. this allows for measuring and recording of key performance indicators (kpis) 
of inter-cloud service between peer csps according to the monitoring results. 
– service performance management. this allows for adjusting of particular inter-cloud service 
performance based on service performance tracking results to meet the requirements of the sla. 
– service capacity management. this allows for identifying of current or potential capacity bottlenecks 
by comparing the allocated inter-cloud service capacity with kpis, and planning inter-cloud service 
capacity to meet the requirements of the sla. 
7.2.7 incident and problem management 
the incident and problem management function detects and reports inter-cloud incidents and problems. 
this function includes the following. 
– incident and problem detection. this allows for capturing of inter -cloud incidents or problems 
between peer csps. 
– incident and problem reporting. this allows for providing and exchanging of inter-cloud incident or 
problem reports to peer csps. 
7.2.8 peer service management 
the peer service management function allows for connecting of oss and bsss of a peer csp, by adapting an 
inter-cloud management application programming interface (api). 
this function includes: 
– inter-cloud connection management. this allows for managing of connectivity with peer csp s 
involved in an inter-cloud relationship. 
– access of the bsss of a peer csp. this allows for accessing  to the inter-cloud bsss of peer csp with 
appropriate identity and credentials  to provide business capabilities. the identity and credentials 
are provided by inter-cloud security (see clause 7.4). the functions of inter-cloud bsss can be found 
in clause 7.1. 
– access to the oss of a peer csp. this allows for accessing to the inter-cloud oss of a peer csp with 
appropriate identity and credentials  to provid e administration capabilities. the identity and 
credentials are provided by inter-cloud security (see clause 7.4). the functions of an inter-cloud oss 
can be found in clause 7.2. 
– inter-cloud management api adaptation. this allows for adapting of an inter -cloud bss- and oss-
related api from a peer csp. 
