7 security  
 
1054 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider 
the cloud service customer should add the following 
items to awareness, education and training programmes 
for cloud service business managers, cloud service 
administrators, cloud service integrators and cloud 
service users, including relevant employees and 
contractors: 
– standards and procedures for the use of cloud 
services; 
– information security risks relating to cloud services 
and how those risks are managed; 
– system and network environment risks with the use 
of cloud services; 
– applicable legal and regulatory considerations. 
information security awareness, education and training 
programmes about cloud services should be provided to 
management and the supervising managers, including 
those of business units. these efforts support effective 
co-ordination of information security activities. 
the cloud service provider should provide awareness, 
education and training for employees, and request 
contractors to do the same, concerning the appropriate 
handling of cloud service customer data and cloud 
service derived data. this data can contain information 
confidential to a cloud service customer or be subject to 
specific limitations, including regulatory restrictions, on 
access and use by the cloud service provider. 
7.2.3 disciplinary process 
control 7.2.3 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
7.3 termination and change of employment 
the objective specified in clause 7.3 of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
7.3.1 termination or change of employment responsibilities 
control 7.3.1 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
8 asset management 
8.1 responsibility for assets 
the objective specified in clause 8.1 of iso/iec 27002 applies. 
8.1.1 inventory of assets 
control 8.1.1 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider 
the cloud service customer's inventory of assets should 
account for information and associated assets stored in 
the cloud computing environment. the records of the 
inventory should indicate where the assets are 
maintained, e.g., identification of the cloud service. 
the inventory of assets of the cloud service provider 
should explicitly identify: 
– cloud service customer data; 
– cloud service derived data. 
