xaas 3 
 
     679 
– billing functional component. the billing functional component has capabilities for the metering and 
rating of the use of naas services by naas cscs and the generation of invoices based on the charges 
for the use of naas services created by the metering  and rating function, and the tra nsmission of 
the invoices to the naas cscs. 
in addition to bss components defined in [itu-t y.3502], the following functional components are added (see 
figure 8-1): 
– the customer order management functional component is responsible of the lifecycle management 
of a naas cscs' requests for naas products (and naas services offered by these naas products). this 
includes customer order establishment (step guiding, data collection and validation), customer 
order orchestration and  overall customer order lifecycle  management (see [itu -t y.3521] and 
[itu-t y.3522]). orders from naas cscs may be for new naas products and naas services, or may 
be for updating or terminating of an existing naas service; 
– the product inventory functional component holds information of naas products' instances ordered 
by naas cscs. this information is updated during the lifecycle of the naas products instances, 
reflecting changes resulting from execution of management operations on these naas pro duct 
instances. 
8.2 service layer functional components for naas 
figure 8-2 shows the service layer functional components used for naas services instantiation and also when 
a naas service is instantiated by the naas csp. 
 
figure 8-2 – service layer functional components for naas 
8.2.1 business capabilities (naas) 
the business capabilities (naas) functional component provides a set of capabilities for accessing the naas 
business related functionalities (see clause 7.1) related to the provision of naas  services. the business 
functionalities are con tained within the business support systems (bss) functional components (see 
clause 8.1). 
in particular, the business capabilities (naas) functional component provide access means for the naas csc 
to select and purchase a naas product (and associated naas s ervices with associated naas service models 
and naas service operational policy models) available in the product catalogue functional component (see 
clause 8.1). once validated by the naas csp, the requested naas service is instantiated by the naas csp, i.e., 
a corresponding service capabilities (naas) functional component is made available in the service layer 
allowing for further naas service interactions between the naas csc and the naas csp. if not already 
instantiated an administration capabilities (naas) functional component is also made available in the service 
layer allowing for naas service-related management interactions between the naas csc and the naas csp. 
interactions through the business capabilities (naas) functional component also allow for the naas csc to 
access the billing information related to the usage of instantiated naas services. using bss and oss functional 
components, the naas csp collects relevant usage measurements and usage events in order to generate and 
provide a bill to the naas csc. 

