 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   297 
occurs, the absolute controllability for a given primary csp role, i.e., permission, is transferred to one of the 
designated secondary csps. by transferring the responsibility of the primary csp role with associated 
management information, the service can continue even if the primary csp's systems are seriously damaged, 
e.g., due to a natural disaster or  the csp stops a service due to economic decisions (refer to use cases in 
clauses i.4 and i.5). activation of the primary csp role delegation needs prior agreement of the csc. 
the primary csp role delegation capability is required to: 
– be activated only with the prior agreement of the csc. 
the primary csp role delegation capability is recommended to: 
– allow a csp to discover peer csps that are capable of inheriting the primary csp role, and enable the 
csp to negotiate with these peer csps as to whether they can accept the inheritance; 
– allow a csp to transfer its management information associated with the primary csp role in a reliable 
manner (e.g., periodically) to the peer csps that have accepted the permission transfer with that 
csp;  
– allow the controllability of the information associated with the primary csp role to be transferred 
to the secondary csps with minimum interruptions; 
– allow a csp to cancel the permission transfer arrangements. 
9.10 inter-cloud service handling 
the inter-cloud service handling capability deals with the primary csp offering cloud services to its cscs based 
on the handling of services provided by the secondary csps. this capability can be used for inter -cloud 
intermediary pattern. 
the inter-cloud service handling capability is required to:  
– support service intermediation, i.e., conditioning or enhancing the cloud service of a peer csp; 
– support service aggregation, i.e., providing the composition of a set of services provided by the csps; 
– support service arbitrage, i.e., selecting one service offering from a group offered by the peer csps.  
10 security considerations 
the security framework for cloud computing is described in [itu -t x.1601] covering security challenges for 
csps. in particular, [itu -t x.1601] analyses sec urity threats and challenges in the cloud computing 
environment and describes security capabilities that could mitigate these threats and meet security 
challenges. 
appendix iv identifies important aspects that should be considered when developing recommendations 
addressing inter-cloud security aspects. 
  
