5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
934  
appendix i 
 
summaries of referenced documents 
i.1 3cpp references and associated summaries 
[3cpp tcsa operation method] – operation method of trusted cloud service assessment 
[3cpp tcsc assessment method] – assessment method for trusted cloud service certification 
[ydb144-2014]  – cloud service agreement reference framework 
i.2 csmic references and associated summaries 
[smi framework version 2.0 draft] – service measurement index framework version 2.0 draft 
i.3 dmtf references and associated summaries 
[dsp-is0101] – interoperable clouds 
this white paper describes a snapshot of the work being done in the dmtf open cloud standards incubator, 
including use cases and reference architecture as they relate to the interfaces between a csp and a cloud 
service consumer. the goal of the incubator is to define a set of architectural semantics that unify the 
interoperable management of enterprise and cloud computing. this paper summarizes the core use cases, 
reference architecture and service lifecycle. these building blocks will be used to specify the cloud provider 
interfaces, data artefacts and profiles to achieve interoperable management. 
[dsp0264] – cimi-cim specification 
this document defines a cim representation for the cimi logical model. 
[dsp0263] –cimi model and restful http-based protocol 
this specification describes the model and protocol for management interactions between a cloud iaas 
provider and the consumers of an iaas service. the basic resources of iaas (machines, storage and networks) 
are modelled with the goal of providing consumer management access to an implementation of iaas and 
facilitating portability between cloud implementations that support the specification. this document 
specifies a rest-style protocol using http. however, th e underlying model is not specific to http, and it is 
possible to map it to other protocols as well. 
[dsp0243] – open virtualization format specification 
this document describes an open, secure, portable, efficient and extensible format for the packaging a nd 
distribution of software to be run in virtual machines. 
i.4 etsi references and associated summaries 
[etsi ts 103 142] – cloud: test descriptions for cloud interoperability 
this document specifies interoperability test descriptions for occi and cdmi standards. the test descriptions 
cover the occi and cdmi protocol specifications where relevant and more specifically: 1) occi 
interoperability testing, to prove that end -to-end functionality is as required by the standard. 2) cdmi 
interoperability testing, to prove that end-to-end functionality is as required by the standard. 3) occi + cdmi 
interworking testing, to prove that end-to-end functionality is as required by the standards. 
[etsi tr 103 125] – cloud: slas for cloud services 
this document aims to review previous work on slas including etsi guides from tc user and contributions 
from eurocio, etc. and to derive potential requirements for cloud specific sla standards. 
