 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   231 
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation 
this recommendation defines the following terms: 
3.2.1 cloud service image: an executable code with state information of virtual machine or container. 
note 1 – state infor mation includes execution states, disk states and memory states of system, such as program 
counter, registry, disk volume number, disk volume size, memory stack and information of allocated memory.  
note 2 – cloud service image includes operating system, libraries, data files, applications, etc. 
3.2.2 core cloud: a cloud computing, which manages resource pools including resources in the edge of 
the network and enables cloud service. 
note – enabled cloud service on the core cloud is provided by a cloud service provider (csp). 
3.2.3 distributed cloud: distribution of cloud capabilities types to the edge of the network for enabling 
cloud services with low latency and real time processing on limited bandwidth by interworking among pools 
of physical or virtual resources. 
3.2.3 edge c loud: a cloud computing deployed to the edge of the network accessed by cloud service 
customers (cscs) with small capacity resources enabling cloud service. 
note 1 – enabled cloud service on the edge cloud is lightweight cloud service provided by a cloud service provider (csp) 
depending on cloud service category. 
note 2 – lightweight cloud service refers to a portion of cloud service to reconfigure the functionality of cloud service 
to fit on edge cloud such as base station and gateway with small capacity resource. 
3.2.5 regional cloud: a cloud computing hosted from core cloud to particular geographical regions. 
note – enabled cloud service on the regional cloud is entire or partial cloud service of core cloud provided by a cloud 
service provider (csp). 
4 abbreviations and acronyms 
this recommendation uses the following abbreviations and acronyms: 
ar augmented reality 
cc core cloud 
csc cloud service customer 
csp cloud service provider 
ec edge cloud 
iot internet of things 
mec multi-access edge computing 
ml machine learning 
qos quality of service 
rc regional cloud 
sla service level agreement 
vr virtual reality 
5 conventions 
in this recommendation: 
the keywords " is required to " indicate a requirement which must be strictly followed and from which no 
deviation is permitted if conformance to this document is to be claimed. 
the keywords "is recommended" indicate a requirement which is recommended but which is not absolutely 
required. thus, this requirement need not be present to claim conformance. 
