xaas 3 
 
     687 
8.3.3.8 nf inventory 
the nf inventory functional component holds information of all network function instances. this information 
is updated during the lifecycle of the network function instances, reflecting changes resulting from execution 
of management operations on these network function instances. 
8.3.4 oss-ccs functional components 
note – the following description is based on an adaptation of the oss functional components as described in 
clause 9.2.5.3 of [itu-t y.3502]. 
the oss-ccs functional components encompass the set of operational-related management capabilities that 
are required in order to manage and control the virtual resources  for ccs necessary for the support of 
network functions instances. these virtual resources are provided in naas csp 's infrastructure points of 
presence (pops) (e.g. , data centres) in which network functions instances are deployed. typical virtual 
resources for compute include virtual machines  (vms) or containers. see clause 7.8.3 for a description of 
oss-ccs functionalities. 
figure 8-6 shows the oss-ccs functional components. 
 
figure 8-6 – oss-ccs functional components 
8.3.4.1 ccs automation 
the ccs automation functional component provides capabilities for deliver ing and orchestrati ng virtual 
resources for cloud compute and storage. this includes orchestrati on of allocation, release, upgrade of 
relevant infrastructure resources including optimizing of such resources usage, as well as managing the 
association of the virtual resources to the physical resources. provisioning of these virtual resources can be 
automated in order to support scalable resource operations, including configuration. 
8.3.4.2 ccs monitoring and reporting 
the ccs monitoring and reporting functional component provides capabilities for: 
– reporting on the behaviour of the naas csp's system, which can take t he form of alerts for 
behaviour which has a time -sensitive aspect (e.g., the occurrence of a fault, the completion of a 
task), or it can take the form of aggregated forms of historical data (e.g., service usage data); 
– storing and retrieving monitoring and event data as logging records. 
there is a need to guarantee the availability, confidentiality and integrity of the logging records held by the 
ccs monitoring and reporting functional component. for multi-tenant cloud services, there is also a need to 
design access to the records so that particular tenants can only gain access to information about their own 
tenancy and about no other tenancy. 

