 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   323 
– timeliness: the acquisition rate and timeliness, to effectively find elements in limited time that meet 
a specified criterion in a large dataset, are new challenges faced by data processing. other new 
challenges are related to the types of criteria specif ied and there is a need to devise new index 
structures and responses to the queries having tight response time limits. 
– privacy: data about human individuals, such as demographic information, internet activities, 
commutation patterns, social interactions,  energy or water consumption, are being collected and 
analysed for different purposes. big data technologies and services are challenged to protect 
personal identities and sensitive attributes of data throughout the whole data processing cycle while 
respecting applicable data retention policy. 
positive resolving of the above challenges opens new opportunities to discover new data relationships, 
hidden patterns or unknown dependencies. 
6.2 big data ecosystem 
this clause describes a n environment, called the big data ecosystem through roles and sub -roles. it also 
defines necessary activities for roles  providing and consuming big data services as well as relationships 
between roles. 
the big data ecosystem includes the following roles: 
– data provider; 
– big data service provider; 
– big data service customer. 
the big data ecosystem is shown in figure 6-1. 
y .3600(15)_f6-1
big data service
provider
data service
data request/ rawlingc service request
metadata
data provider
publish
metadata find
data supplier
data broker
big data service
customer
search
 
figure 6-1 – big data ecosystem 
6.2.1 data provider (dp) 
the data provider (dp) role consists of two sub-roles: 
– data supplier; 
– data broker. 
6.2.1.1 data supplier 
the data supplier provides data from different sources to the data broker, which can be accessed by the big 
data service provider. the data supplier's activities include: 
– generating data; 
– creating metadata information describing the data source(s) and relevant attributes; 
– publishing metadata information to access the metadata. 
