xaas 3 
 
  581 
table 6-1 – relationship between daas logical components and daas functions 
daas logical components 
[itu-t y.3503] 
daas functions 
this recommendation  
virtualization infrastructure virtualization infrastructure support  
(see clause 7.1) 
connection manager virtual desktop connection and delivery  
(see clause 7.2) virtual desktop delivery 
resource pool virtual desktop resource management  
(see clause 7.3) 
daas client daas client support  
(see clause 7.4) 
7 daas functions 
7.1 virtualization infrastructure support 
virtualization infrastructure support functions provide the abilities to: 
– offer abstracting hardware resources (see clause 7.1.1); 
– allocate resources to a virtual desktop resource assignment function (see clause 7.1.2); 
– improve the performance in terms of a daas platform (see clause 7.1.3); 
– supply the interfaces to access the virtualization infrastructure (see clause 7.1.4). 
7.1.1 platform virtualization 
providing a separate virtual desktop environment for each daas user is a main role of the platform 
virtualization function. this function: 
– performs abstracting hardware resources in order to assign them to a virtual desktop efficiently; 
 note – abstracting hardware resources  has different approaches, e.g., operating-system-level virtualization 
and hypervisor which are configured to accommodate one or more virtual machines above hardware;  
• operating-system-level virtualization is a virtualization method where the input/output (i/o) 
management part of a base  operating system (os) allows for multiple isolated user space 
instances, instead of just one. such instances may look like a virtual desktop environment from 
the point of view of its daas users. (e.g., container based approach); 
• a hypervisor is a type o f system software that allows multiple oss to share a single hardware 
host [itu -t y.3510]. it is classified into two types depending on the installation on a host 
machine. in the one type, hypervisors are installed and run directly on the host machine's 
hardware like an os. the other type is described such a way that hypervisors are installed on 
an existing operating system os of the host machine and run just as other applications do. 
– coordinates invocations on central processing unit (cpu), memory, disk,  network and other 
resources through the platform os. since the platform os takes care of all the hardware, this 
function supports the hardware compatibility; 
– consolidates multiple platforms into the pool of physically separated hardware resources; 
– isolates virtual desktops not to affect the operation of a platform itself or any other virtual desktops; 
– constructs the multiple systems for daas such as server, storage and network to serve different daas 
users. 
7.1.2 resource assignment 
the resource assignment function: 
