1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
28  
– unified communication: it is recommended that the csp provides to cscs a consistent unified user 
interface and user experience of communications applications, such as voice, messaging, audio, 
video conferencing, etc., across multiple devices and media-types.  
12 general requirements for bdaas 
the general requirements for big data as a service ( bdaas) derived from the use cases in clause i. 7 are as 
follows: 
– resource clustering: it is recommended for the csp to cluster resources for processing of extensive 
data; 
 note 1 – resources includes processing, storage and networks, etc.  
– data collection: it is recommended for the bdaas csp to collect data from cscs, csns and csps; 
 note 2 – data includes various types, different formats, real time streaming/static data and csc data including 
users' behaviour data. 
– data storing: it is recommended for the bdaas csp to store data with sufficient storage and fulfil 
performance demands; 
– data analysing: it is recommended for the bdaas csp to analyse data with various kinds of analysis 
algorithms; 
 note 3 – data analysis algorithms include classification, clustering, regression, association, ranking,  etc. 
– data visualizing: it is recommended for the bdaas csp to provide reporting tools with multiple styles 
of data visualization; 
 note 4 – visualization styles include statistical graphics, forms, diagrams, charts, etc.  
– data managing: it is recommended for the bdaas csp to support management of data lifecycle and 
resources monitoring. 
 note 5 – functional requirements for bdaas are provided in clause 8 of [itu-t y.3600]. 
13 general requirements for inter-cloud computing 
the general requirements for inter-cloud computing derived from the use cases in clause i.8 are as follows: 
– on-demand assignment of cloud computing resources among csps: for assigning cloud computing 
resources among csps on demand, it is required that a csp defines (a) a trusted relationship 
between cooperating csps; (b) an appropriate agreement and means of exchanging data on cost, 
performance and other information for each resource; and (c) an agreed methodology for 
requesting, using and returning the resources of other csps; 
– resource and load distribution: a csp in an inter-cloud federation is required to utilize appropriate 
resources distributed in other csps for wide -area load distribution according to the required 
promptness, flexibility and cost; 
– user environment adaptation : a csp is required to detect changes in the cloud service user 
environment, discover alternative resources in other csps for these changes and migrate the service 
environment smoothly with minimum impact based on the csc's approval; 
 note 1 – these actions are to be performed for all cloud service users. 
– inter-cloud service intermediation: inter-cloud service intermediation enables the csp to select the 
most suitable cloud services and to create new cloud services by integrating cloud services offered 
by other csps. it is recommended that the csp engages in support of intermediation for multiple 
cloud services of various cloud service categories such as iaas, naas, paas and saas; 
– large-scale migration: a csp in an inter-cloud federation is recommended to be able to guarantee 
continuity of all the cloud services in the csp by large -scale service migration to other federated 
csps with minimum impact during a desired period. it is recommended to consider the priority of 
cloud services when migrating. 
 note 2 – for more information on functional requirements for inter-cloud computing,  see clause 9 of 
[itu-t y.3511]. 
