 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   29 
14 general requirements for end-to-end cloud resource management 
the general requirements  for end -to-end cloud resource management  derived from the use cases in 
clause i.9 are as follows: 
– manageability for a single cloud service: it is required that the csp be able to collect management, 
telemetry and diagnostics and/or status information from the cloud computing systems used for 
providing cloud services and report the information to the csc; 
– manageability for multiple cloud services: it is recommended that multiple csps work together to 
offer comprehensive status awareness and management info rmation to expand across multiple 
cloud data centres as composite cloud services are built from multiple services implemented by 
multiple cloud service providers, requiring the need for multi-cloud, end-to-end management data. 
 note – for more information on end -to-end cloud computing  management, refer to [ itu-t y.3520] and 
[itu-t y.3521]. 
15 general requirements for cloud infrastructure 
the general requirements for cloud infrastructure derived from the use cases in clause i.10 are as follows: 
– resource abstraction and control : it is required for cloud infrastructure to provide resource 
abstraction and control capability to cloud services; 
– resource provisioning: it is required for cloud infrastructure to provide collaboratively processing, 
storage and network resources to cloud services and supporting functions. 
 note – functional requirements for cloud computing infrastructure are provided in [itu -t y.3510]. 
16 general requirements for trusted cloud services 
the general requirements for trusted cloud services  are derived from the use case in clause i. 11. the 
following requirements are important for cscs in order to be able to select a trusted cloud service. these 
requirements do not specify the levels and abilities of the cloud services, but require that the cloud services 
which are treated as trusted cloud services should satisfy the following:  
– governance for trusted cloud service: it is recommended for trusted cloud services to comply with 
appropriate or local standards and best practices of corporate governance and include appropriate 
mechanisms by which policies affecting the provision and use of cloud services are directed and 
controlled; 
 note 1 – part of this requirement refers to [itu-t y.3502]. 
– management for trusted cloud service : it is recommended for trusted cloud services to include 
appropriate mechanisms for administration, reporting, location of stored data, privacy, de -
identification of data, etc. 
– resiliency for trusted cloud service : it is  recommended for trusted cloud services to include 
appropriate mechanisms by which an acceptable level of service can be maintained in the face of 
faults (unintentional, intentional or naturally caused) affecting normal operation; 
 note 2 – part of this requirement refers to [itu-t y.3502]. 
– security for trusted cloud service : it is recommended for trusted cloud services to include 
appropriate mechanisms for cryptography, attack resistance, intrusion detection, security incident 
handling and reporting, etc. 
 note 3 – part of this requirement refers to [itu-t x.1601]. 
– availability for trusted cloud service : it is recommended for trusted cloud services to include 
appropriate mechanisms for ensuring the appropriate level of access to the service and usability by 
the csc; 
