 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   69 
8.3.2.7 define deployment steps 
the define deployment steps activity focuses on defining the steps for the deployment of  services. this 
activity involves describing each of the steps that need to be taken by the operations and support teams in 
order to get the service implementation deployed and ready for use by cloud service customers. 
8.3.2.8 provide services 
the provide services activity involves all steps required to deliver a cloud service  to its cloud service 
customers. the provide services activity includes accepting and processing service invocations from the user 
with associated authentication and authorization of the user identity. the processing of a service invocation 
is done by means of an instance of the service implementation, which can in turn involve the composition 
and calling of other services as determined by the design and configuration of the service implementation. 
the provide services activity also involves the following: 
• managing the service fault handling process; 
• managing the business support system and the operational support system; 
• maintaining the service and underlying infrastructure; 
• automating system processes; 
• managing long term capacity and performance trends; 
• installing, configuring and performing maintenance updates on required hardware for compute, 
storage and network capabilities for the cloud service provider's data centre; 
• installing and configuring the software required to run the cloud provider's data centre and support 
cloud service implementations. this includes applying fixes, updates and upgrades to that software, 
as required. 
8.3.2.9 deploy and provision services 
the deploy and provision services activity involves getting a service implementation r unning and making it 
available at a network end point accessible to the csc:cloud service users and making it able to handle service 
requests from users. this activity includes: 
• following the deployment processes defined for the service. 
note – this activity also covers the processes required to un-deploy and de-provision a cloud service. 
8.3.2.10 perform service level management 
the perform service level management activity focuses on managing compliance with sla targets. this 
activity involves:  
• monitoring the metrics for each service and comparing them with the service targets required by 
the sla for the service; 
• taking action when the metrics do not meet the values required by the sla, to bring the service back 
into compliance with the sla, for example, by following procedures laid down by the csp:cloud 
service deployment manager; 
• reporting a problem if compliance cannot be maintained. 
8.3.2.11 manage business plan 
the manage business plan activity involves: 
• defining a service offering,  describing the technical aspects of the offering (functional interfaces, 
slas,…) and the business aspects of the offering; 
note – when establishing the service offering, the cloud service provider can take into account aspects related 
to the interaction with peer cloud service providers. 
• creating a business plan which covers the offering of one or more cloud services to customers, 
handling both financial and technical aspects of the services, the target customer set, contracts and 
slas, channels to market, sales targets; 
