1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
184  
7 functional requirements for a physical machine 
7.1 component requirements 
7.1.1 processing unit requirements 
7.1.1.1 cpu requirements 
– virtualization instruction set : it is recommended that a physical machine supports a cpu  
virtualization instruction set to improve the performance of cpu virtualization. 
– cpu replacement: it is recommended that a physical machine supports substitution of cpu with 
other cpus to allow cpu upgrade or replacement of faulty cpus. 
– multiple cpus: it is recommended that a physical machine supports multiple cpus to achieve higher 
performance. 
– low power consumption of cpu : it is recommended that a physical machine supports low power 
consumption of cpu to reduce the operational expenditure (opex). 
7.1.1.2 memory requirements 
– hardware-assisted memory virtualization : it is recommended that a physical machine  supports 
hardware-assisted memory virtualization to improve the performance of memory virtualization. 
– memory replacement: it is recommended that a physical machine supports substitution of memory 
with other memories to allow memory upgrade or replacement of faulty memory. 
– memory reliability: it is recommended that a physical machine supports memory reliability using 
memory redundancy and memory error correction technologies. 
note 1 – memory reliability refers to technologies to i mprove the reliability of the physical machine by  preventing 
permanent loss of data or downtime caused by memory failure . one example is m emory mir roring, as one 
implementation of memory redundancy. memory mirroring replicates and stores data on a different physical memory 
within different channels simultaneously. if the primary physical memory failure occurs, subsequent read and write will 
use the backup memory. 
– supporting various types of memory: it is recommended that a physical machine provides various 
types of memory such as non-volatile and volatile memory depending on the cpu's memory usage. 
note 2 – examples of cpu's memory usage with non -volatile and volatile types are booting up and storing temporary 
data as main memory, respectively. non -volatile type includes rom and volatile type is classified into static random 
access memory (sram) and dynamic random access memory (dram).  
7.1.1.3 storage requirements 
– multiple interfaces for storage: it is recommended that a physical machine supports interfaces of 
storage for different media, such as magnetic storage, optical storage and semiconductor storage. 
note 1 – examples of interfaces include integrated development environment (ide), serial at attachment (sata), serial 
attached scsi (sas), small computer system interface (scsi), at attachment (ata), m.2 (formerly known as ngff), 
peripheral component interconnect express (pci-e) and mini-serial at attachment (msata). 
– storage replacement: it is recommended that storage in a physical machine supports substitution 
of storage with other storages to allow external storage upgrade or replacement of faulty external 
storage. 
– storage redundancy hardware : it is recommended that a physical machine supports storage 
redundancy hardware. 
note 2 – an example of storage redundancy hardware is raid card. raid card is to support data storage virtualization 
technology that combines multiple physical disk drive components into one or more logical units for the purposes of 
data redundancy, performance improvement, or both. 
– storage hibernation: it is recommended that a physical machine supports hibernation of storages 
without i/o for a long time to reduce energy consumption. 
note 3 – an example of storage hibernation is hard disk drive (hdd) hibernat ion. the hdd spins continuously at 
5400/7200 revolutions per minute (rpm) consuming lots of power. during hdd hibernation, the hdd stops spinning to 
reduce power consumption.  
