1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
164  
table i.9 – a use case for cloud service management in csb 
to the sla, the csn: cloud service broker performs remedies (e.g., provides bonus 
point to the csc or scales up the service)  
  c. finally, if the failure to meet the sla is caused by the csp who operates the 
service, the csn: cloud service broker and the csp settle the failure. 
(7)  during the service period, the csc makes a request to the csn: cloud service broker to 
control (e.g., pause, resume, or restart) the service. 
  a. the csn: cloud service broker records the request information from the csc.  
  b. the csn: cloud service broker makes a control request (e.g., pause, resume, or 
restart) to the csp, who is operating the service. 
  c. the csp controls the service according to the request from the csn: cloud service 
broker and replies with a result of control to the csn: cloud service broker.  
  d. the csn: cloud service broker verifies the control request is correctly performed.  
  e. through the csb workspace, the csc is notified that the request has been 
performed. 
(8)  during the service period, the csc makes a request to the csn: cloud service broker to 
stop and terminate the service. 
  a. the csn: cloud service broker records the termination request information from 
the csc. 
  b. the csn: cloud service broker makes a termination request to the csp, who is 
operating the service. 
  c. the csp stops and terminates the service according to the request from csn: cloud 
service broker and replies with a result of termination to the csn: cloud service 
broker. 
  d  the csn: cloud service broker verifies the service is correctly terminated.  
  e through the csb workspace, the csc is notified the termination has been 
performed and the cost of the service usage. 
roles/sub-roles csp, csn: cloud service broker, csc 
figure 
  
pre-conditions 
(optional) 
the csp is a member of the csn: cloud service broker and has an account for accessing csb 
workspace. 
the csc is a member of the csn: cloud service broker and has an account for accessing csb 
workspace. 
the csc selected a cloud service to utilize. 
the csn: cloud service broker and the csc established a sla. 

