1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
234  
6.2 characteristics of distributed cloud 
the characteristics of cloud computing [itu-t y.3500] are inherited to distributed cloud as: 
– broad network access; 
– measured service; 
– multi-tenancy; 
– on-demand self-service; 
– rapid elasticity and scalability; 
– resource pooling. 
the distributed cloud also has the following additional characteristics: 
– distributed cloud resource : the resources of distributed cloud are geographically distributed at 
various types of data centres, base stations and iot gateways. the distributed cloud resources are 
pooled on demand to meet csc requirements by using different physical and virtual resources 
dynamically; 
– heterogeneous infrastructure: the distributed cloud has different scale infrastructures with large 
resource capacity in core/regional cloud and small resource capacity in edge cloud. the distributed 
cloud needs to utilize heterogeneous infrastructure as a single system to provide various services to 
cscs; 
– context awareness network : the distributed cloud has on -demand network control according to 
context information for cscs. through context awareness network, mirrored cloud service to edge 
cloud is provided directly to cscs; 
 note – context information includes cloud service context information and network service context 
information. examples of cloud service context information are capacity of cloud, resource usage, service 
id/name, service location, status of neighbour. examples of network service context information are latency, 
bandwidth, quality of service (qos), routing path. 
– agile service: cloud services can be deployed to the distributed cloud resource quickly and can be 
easily developed. the developed cloud services can be rapidly and dynamically provided on-demand 
across various types of distributed cloud resources; 
– autonomous management: the distributed cloud has global management in core cloud for the 
management of distributed  cloud resources and cloud service with autonomous resource 
management for edge cloud. edge cloud can manage its own resources and services when the global 
management system of distributed cloud is not applicable. 
6.3 configuration models of distributed cloud 
the cloud computing needs to be distributed to nearby cscs to support characteristics of distributed cloud. 
depending on a csc's requirements and characteristics of distributed cloud, cloud services are deployed to 
one or more cloud among edge, regional and core clouds with network functions. for each cloud service with 
the csc's requirements, network resources are allocated by network slicing which allows multiple logical 
networks to run on top of a shared physical network infrastructure. 
