3 xaas  
 
644  
ovf   open virtualization format  
qos  quality of service 
sla  service level agreement 
uml  unified modelling language 
vlan  virtual local area network 
vm   virtual machine 
5 conventions 
the keywords " is required to " indicate a require ment which must be strictly followed and from which no 
deviation is permitted if conformance to this recommendation is to be claimed.  
the keywords "is recommended" indicate a requirement which is recommended but which is not absolutely 
required. thus this requirement need not be present to claim conformance. 
the keywords "can optionally" indicate an optional requirement which is permissible, without implying any 
sense of being recommended. this term is not intended to imply that the ven dor's implementation must 
provide the option and the feature can be optionally enabled by the network operator/service provider. 
rather, it means the vendor may optionally provide the feature and still claim conformance with the 
specification. 
in the body of this recommendation and its annexes, the words shall, shall not, should, and may sometimes 
appear, in which case they are to be interpreted, respectively, as is required to, is prohibited from, is 
recommended, and can optionally. the appearance of such phrases or keywords in an appendix or in material 
explicitly marked as informative are to be interpreted as having no normative intent. 
6 general description 
infrastructure as a service (iaas) is one of the representative categories of cloud services, in which the cloud 
capabilities type provided to the cloud service customer (csc) is an infrastructure capabilities type. iaas 
allows the csc to use cloud infrastructure resources (processing, storage or networking). use of cloud 
infrastructure resources is supported by service functions, which can include the relevant operations. 
iaas provides to the csc the following service functions: 
– computing service functions  allow the csc to provision and use processing resources. csc can 
perform operations relevant to processing resources including machine (physical or virtual machine) 
lifecycle operations and functions such as virtual machine (vm) migration, backup, snapshot, clone 
and reservation; 
– storage service functions allow the csc to use storage resources. the csc can perform operations 
relevant to storage resources including lifecycle operations and functions such as snapshot, backup, 
input/output (i/o) performance, load balance and reservation; 
– network service functions  allow the csc to use networking resources. the csc can integrate 
infrastructure resources using network relevant functions such as ip address, network isolation (e.g., 
virtual local area network (vlan)), virtual networking (e.g., virtual switch), load balance and firewall. 
the high level concept of iaas using t he layering framework defined in [itu -t y.3502] is illustrated in 
figure 6-1. 
