 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   75 
8.4.2.4 perform audit 
the perform audit activity involves: 
• requesting or obtaining audit evidence; 
• conducting any required tests on the system being audited; 
• obtaining evidence programmatically, through a set of interfaces provided by the system being 
audited; 
• redacting the evidence, if necessary, in order to protect sensitive information or information subject 
to regulatory control (e.g., pii); 
• comparing the obtained audit evidence against the audit criteria as described by the audit scheme 
or standard that is being used. 
the type of audit evidence required and the criteria used to evaluate it are determined by the audit scheme 
or standard being used. examples include data relating to security controls and performance data for 
particular services. in addition to obtaining data, the perform audit activity can be asked to evaluate the 
services provided by a cloud service provider which includes security controls, privacy impact, performance, 
and other cloud service related cloud computing activities identified by the audit requester. the request can 
come from the cloud service provider itself, where the cloud service provider wants proof of the quality of 
its cloud services which can then be presented to potential cloud service customers. 
8.4.2.5 report audit results 
the report audit results activity involves providing a documented report of the results of performing an audit, 
for example on a given cloud service or on a cloud service provider or on a cloud service customer's use of 
a cloud service. the form of the documented report can be prescribed by the audit scheme that is being 
used. the results of the audit might be given to the cloud service provider, or possibly on request to a cloud 
service customer, depending on the business situation or the legal context. 
8.4.2.6 acquire and assess customers 
the acquire and assess customers activity includes the tasks required to market and sell cloud services up to 
the point where a cloud service customer  agrees a contract to use one or more services. this cloud 
computing activity includes: 
• providing information to potential customers about availa ble services and associated slas and 
contract terms; 
• negotiating terms and prices with customers; 
• assessing the customer's needs and requirements for cloud services. 
note – the cloud service customer  needs assessment activity includes the actions taken  to determine and address the cloud 
service customer's requirements as identified by a gap analysis performed by looking at the customer's current capabilities and 
their desired future capabilities. 
8.4.2.7 assess marketplace  
the assess marketplace activity focuses on assessing the current cloud services marketplace to find cloud 
service (s) that meet the customers' requirements. this cloud computing activity includes: 
• surveying the product offerings of cloud service providers, obtaining both technical a nd business 
information; 
• subscribing to and receiving notifications of changes to the content of cloud service providers'  
product catalogues. 
• matching the product offerings to the customer's needs and requirements, including technical, 
business and regulatory aspects. 
