5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
888  
appendix i 
 
test case template 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
table i.1 provides a test case template to describe cloud computing infrastructure capability type 
interoperability testing between the csc  and csp. the test case template is designed with reference to 
relevant technical specifications. as shown in the table, an interoperability test case consists of test purpose, 
reference, test sequence and test verdict.  
– test purpose is a statement that specifies which test case to verify.  
– reference of the test case provides list of references to the base specification clause(s), use case(s), 
requirement(s), etc. which are either used in the test or define the functionality being tested.  
– the test sequences provide the steps required to perform the test. there are two types of test step. 
a stimulus corresponds to an event that triggers a specific action on the object under test. there is 
no need to provide result for a stimulus step. a check consists of observing that the object under 
test behaves as described. a result must be provided for every check step. if the object under test 
behaves as described in the description of the check step, the result should be recorded as ok, 
otherwise the result should be recorded as fail.  
– for every test case, test verdict should be provided to indicate whether the test is passed. 
table i.1 – test case template 
interoperability test description 
test purpose a concise summary of the test reflecting its purpose and allowing readers to easily 
distinguish this test from any other test in the document. 
reference list of references to the base specification clause(s), use case(s), requirement(s), etc. , 
which are either used in the test or define the functionality being tested. 
test 
sequences 
step type description result 
1 stimulus a stimulus corresponds to an event that 
triggers a specific action on the object under 
test. there is no need to provide 'result' for a 
stimulus step. 
there is no need to 
provide 'result' for a 
stimulus step. 
2 check a check consists of observing that the object 
under test behaves as described. a result must 
be provided for every check step. if the object 
under test behaves as described in the 
description of the check step, the result 
should be recorded as ok, otherwise the 
result should be recorded as fail. 
a result must be 
provided for every 
check step. 
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all/or one check(s) is (are) 
successful, otherwise it is deemed as failed. 
 
  
