5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
828  
7.3.4 inter-cloud service selection 
the inter-cloud service selection function allows a primary csp to match and identify a specified inter-cloud 
service. 
this function includes the following. 
– inter-cloud service matching. this allows a primary csp to find out about available inter -cloud 
services by matching inter-cloud service slas and inter-cloud service monitoring information. 
– inter-cloud service identification. this allows for selecting of appropriate inter-cloud services based 
on the matching result. the identification of the inter -cloud service  selected, as the 
acknowledgement of the inter -cloud selection, is used to reserve an inter-cloud service by a 
primary csp. 
7.3.5 inter-cloud service reservation 
the inter-cloud service reservation function allows a primary csp to create, update and release reserved 
inter-cloud service and its attached resource. 
this function includes the following. 
– inter-cloud reserved service creation. this allows a primary csp to reserve an inter-cloud service and 
its attached resources from other peer csps. the acknowledgement is sent between peer csps as 
confirmation of the creation. 
– inter-cloud reserved service updated. this allows a primary csp to update the inter-cloud reserved 
service and its attached resource s from other peer csps. the acknowledgement is sent between 
peer csps as confirmation of the update. 
– inter-cloud reserved service released. this allows a primary csp to release an inter-cloud reserved 
service and its attached resource s from other peer csps. the acknowledgement is sent between 
peer csps as confirmation of the release. 
7.3.6 inter-cloud service release 
the inter-cloud service release function allows for releasing of a reserved and allocated inter-cloud service 
and return of its attached resources to peer csps.  
this function includes the following. 
– inter-cloud reserved service release. this allows for releasing of an issued inter-cloud service 
reservation and return of its attached resources to peer csps. 
– inter-cloud allocated service release. this allows for de-allocating and terminating of the allocated 
inter-cloud service and return of its attached resources to peer csps. 
7.3.7 inter-cloud capabilities adaptation 
the inter-cloud capabilities adaptation function allows for adapting inter-cloud service api from peer csps. 
this function includes the following. 
– inter-cloud service api adaptation. this allows for adapting of an inter-cloud service api from peer 
csps. the format of an inter-cloud service api provided by peer csps is transformed into a primary 
csp's own api by utilizing inter-cloud capabilities adaptation.  
7.4 security systems 
7.4.1 authentication and identity management 
the authentication and identity management function provides authentication of and identities for peer 
csps.  
this function includes the following. 
– federated identity management. this allows for using of federated identity management to permit 
peer csps to employ the same identity and credentials to access inter-cloud services. 
