security 7 
 
  1071 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider 
the cloud service customer should request information 
from the cloud service provider about the mechanisms 
for: 
– the cloud service customer to report an information 
security event it has detected to the cloud service 
provider; 
– the cloud service provider to receive reports 
regarding an information security event detected by 
the cloud service provider; 
– the cloud service customer to track the status of a 
reported information security event. 
the cloud service provider should provide mechanisms 
for: 
– the cloud service customer to report an information 
security event to the cloud service provider; 
– the cloud service provider to report an information 
security event to a cloud service customer; 
– the cloud service customer to track the status of a 
reported information security event. 
other information for cloud services 
the mechanisms should not only define the procedures but also give essential information like contact phone 
numbers, email  addresses and service times for both the cloud service customer and the cloud service 
provider. 
an information security event can be detected either by the cloud service customer or by the cloud service 
provider. therefore, the main additional responsibility relating to cloud computing is that the party detecting 
the event should have procedures to report the event to the other party immediately. 
16.1.3 reporting information security weaknesses 
control 16.1.3 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
16.1.4 assessment of and decision on information security events 
control 16.1.4 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
16.1.5 response to information security incidents 
control 16.1.5 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
16.1.6 learning from information security incidents 
control 16.1.6 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
16.1.7 collection of evidence 
control 16.1.7 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
the cloud service customer and the cloud service provider should agree upon the procedures to respond to 
requests for potential digital evidence or other information from within the cloud computing environment.  
  
