1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
80  
8.5.11 reversibility 
reversibility is a term which applies to the process for cloud service customers to retrieve their cloud service 
customer data  and application artefacts and for the cloud service provider  to delete all cloud service 
customer data, as well as contractually specified cloud service derived data after an agreed period. the 
principle is the "right to be forgotten", in that the cloud service customer has a right to expect that once they 
indicate to the cloud service provider  that their use of the service(s) will cease, there will be an orderly 
process for the cloud service customer  to retrieve cloud service customer data  and their application 
artefacts and that the cloud service provider will delete all copies and not retain any materials belonging to 
the cloud service customer after an agreed period. 
the activity related to reversibility will in most cases involve a series of steps, typically requiring the cloud 
service customer to retrieve their data and inform the cloud service provider that the cloud service provider 
can delete their copies of the cloud service customer data – safeguarding backup copies until that point in 
case of failures in the exit process. these steps would also necessarily apply to any peer services that are 
used by the cloud service provider to support the cloud service provider's services. 
8.5.12 security 
8.5.12.1 general 
it is critical to recognize that security is a cross-cutting aspect of the architecture that spans across all views 
of the reference model, ranging from physical security to application security. therefore, se curity in cloud 
computing architecture is not solely a cross-cutting aspect under the control of cloud service providers, but 
also affects cloud service customers, cloud service partners and their sub-roles. 
cloud computing  systems can address security req uirements such as authentication, authorization, 
availability, confidentiality, non -repudiation, identity management, integrity, audit, security monitoring, 
incident response, and security policy management. this clause describes cloud computing  specific 
perspectives to help analyse and implement security in a cloud computing system. 
security capabilities for cloud services  include: access control, confidentiality, integrity and availability. 
security for cloud computing is described in detail in other specifications. 
security capabilities also include the management and administration functions which are used to control 
cloud services, underlying resources and the use of cloud services, with particular attention applied to access 
control for users of these functions. this is in addition to: 
• facilities to enable early detection, diagnosis and fixing of cloud service  and resource related 
problems; 
• secure logging of access records, activity reports, session monitoring and packet inspections on the 
network; 
• provision of firewalling, and malicious attack detection and prevention for the cloud service 
providers' systems. one user should not be able to disrupt other users' use of cloud services. 
intranet level security should be provided on the network connecting the cloud service customer to the cloud 
service provider (for example, through the use of vpn capabilities). 
security measures in cloud computing exist to address a series of threats that relate to the use of cloud 
services by cloud service customers, which affect both cloud service customers and cloud service providers. 
these threats are more fully described in other specifications, such as iso/iec 27018. 
8.5.12.2 distribution of security responsibilities  
a cloud service provider and a cloud service customer have differing degrees of control over the computing 
resources in a cloud computing system. compared to traditional information technology systems, where one 
organization has control over the whole stack of computing resources and the entire life cycle of the systems, 
cloud service providers and cloud service customers collaboratively design, build, deploy and operate cloud 
computing systems. 
