2 cloud computing management  
 
530  
5 conventions 
in this recommendation: 
the keywords ''is required to '' indicate a req uirement which must be strictly followed and from which no 
deviation is permitted if conformance to this document is to be claimed. 
the keywords ''is recommended'' indicate a requirement which is recommended but which is not absolutely 
required. thus this requirement need not be present to claim conformance. 
6 overview of inter-cloud data management 
nowadays, one of the main challenges for cloud service providers (csps) is to ensure credibility of data storage 
and transport in multi -cloud environments. inter-cloud data management functions need to consider and 
reflect security and governance aspects of data handling uniformity and interoperability across different csps. 
inter-cloud data categorization in aspects of identification qualifiers and dependency, a s well as inter-cloud 
data annotation, processing and usage, is necessary to attain the data treatment required among multiple 
csps. the appropriate security and access control mechanisms determine access control to inter-cloud data 
under particular conditions (e.g., temporarily, a certain number of times or related to a particular community 
and context). 
with the development and wide usage of big data -related technologies, more and more data and d atasets 
are stored in geographically distributed and heterog eneous computing environments, also known as inter -
cloud environments (e.g., in a high -performance computing scenario). migrating an application from a 
centralized or static place to the distributed computing environments may bring the following challenges: 
1) transmission of intensive data among different csps may cause low data access efficiency; 
2) heterogeneous dataset access and sharing may bring extra computation consumption; 
3) the necessary  and unavoidable maintenance of extensive tracking of metada ta, data locations, 
access control policies, etc. 
 note – intensive data transmission and heterogeneous dataset access and sharing -related technologies lie 
outside the scope of this recommendation. 
[itu-t y.3601] specifies the big data exchange framework and requirements based on the big data ecosystem 
and capabilities specified in [itu -t y.3600]. in [itu -t y.3601], data exchange is described as a process of 
receiving source data under a source schema from data source, transforming it into target data under a target 
schema without altering the representation of source data, and delivering the target data to the data target. 
this recommendation focuses on the inter-cloud data management aspects and does not aim to specify any 
concrete data exchange details. f or more information about big data exchange,  please refer to 
[itu-t y.3601]. 
6.1 inter-cloud data categorization 
[b-iso/iec 19944] identifies the categories of data that flow across cloud service customer (csc) devices and 
cloud services, and can be captured, processed, used and shared. it extends the definitions of csc data, cloud 
service-derived data, csp data and account data. this  recommendation follows the taxonomy of data in 
[b-iso/iec 19944] and focuses on the inter -cloud data aspect. similarly to [b -iso/iec 19944], this 
recommendation is not intended to be exhaustive, but is intended to be extensible. it is recommended that 
the hierarchical relationship based on the four topmost catego ries defined in [b -iso/iec 19944] be 
maintained. 
6.2 data policy language 
the data policy language (dpl) allows csps to annotate, manage, process and use csc or csp data in an inter-
cloud environment (who can do what and when) according to data policies in force. the main challenges for 
dpl are related to small storage footprint, human readability, detection of conflicts at time of specification, 
performance and adaptation to new policy statements that come up with emerging inter -cloud services. 
the dpl expresses inter-cloud data policies for different cloud service categories [e.g., naas, saas, platform 
as a service (paas)] provided by the csps in an inter-cloud environment. 
