cloud computing management 2 
 
  443 
10.4.2.3 resource test management 
this set of functionalities is focused on ensuring that the various resources are working properly. 
this includes the following functionalities: 
1) resource test strategy and policy management. this functionality manages the rules that define the 
strategies for conducting various resource tests; 
2) resource test lifecycle management. this functionality manages the e2e lifecycle of a test of a 
resource; 
3) resource test command and control. this functionality provides access, commands, and controls the 
resource testing environment; 
4) resource test services. this functionality provides the means to access the testing capabilities. 
10.4.3 resource charging and accounting functionalities 
this set of functionalities covers resource usage management of the services. this includes resource usage 
collection and distribution. 
10.4.3.1 resource usage collection and distribution 
this set of functionalities is used to channel usage events from the resources to various processes such as 
billing, legal compliance, a nd service assurance. usage event records are collected, processed, edited, 
correlated, enriched, formatted and distributed to upstream functionalities. 
10.4.4 resource repositories functionalities 
this covers a set of functionalities for the resource repositories of the services. these functionalities include 
resource catalogue management and resource inventory management. 
10.4.4.1 resource catalogue management 
this set of functionalities determines repositories of resource listing within the csp and include the ability to 
design, create, augment and map new entities and supporting data. 
10.4.4.2 resource inventory management 
this set of functionalities manages information of all csp resources available for the implementation of 
services and products. 
11 security considerations 
security aspects for consideration within the cloud computing environment, including inter-cloud computing, 
are addressed by security challenges for the csps as described in [itu -t x.1601]. [itu -t x.1601] analyses 
security threats and challenges, and describes security capabilities that could mitigate these threats and meet 
the security challenges. 
