3 xaas  
 
612  
3.1.5 cloud service category [itu-t y.3500]: group of cloud ser vices that possess some common set of 
qualities. 
note – a cloud service category can include capabilities from one or more cloud capabilities types.  
3.1.6 cloud service customer [itu-t y.3500]: party which is in a business relationship for the purpose of 
using cloud services. 
3.1.7 cloud service provider [itu-t y.3500]: party which makes cloud services available. 
3.1.8 cloud service user [itu-t y.3500]: natural person, or entity on their behalf, associated with a cloud 
service customer that uses cloud services. 
3.1.9 communications as a service (caas) [itu-t y.3500]: cloud service category in which the capability 
provided to the cloud service customer is real time interaction and collaboration. 
note – caas can provide both application capabilities type and p latform capabilities type. 
3.1.10 infrastructure capabilities type [itu-t y.3500]: cloud capabilities type in which the cloud service 
customer can provision and use processing, storage and networking resources. 
3.1.11 logically isolated network partition [itu-t y.3011]: a network that is composed of multiple virtual 
resources which is isolated from other linps. 
note – term "logically isolated", which is the counter concept of "physically isolated", means mutual exclusiveness of 
the subjects (e.g., network partition, in this case), while the original subjects may be physically united/shared within the 
common physical constraints. 
3.1.12 network as a service (naas) [itu-t y.3500]: cloud service category in which the capability provided 
to the cloud service customer is transport connectivity and related network capabilities. 
note – naas can provide any of the three cloud capabilities types. 
3.1.13 platform capabilities type  [itu-t y. 3500]: cloud capabilities type  in which the cloud service 
customer can deploy, m anage and run customer -created or customer -acquired applications using one or 
more programming languages and one or more execution environments supported by the cloud service 
provider. 
3.1.14 tenant [itu-t y.3500]: group of cloud service users sharing access to a set of physical and virtual 
resources. 
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation 
this recommendation defines the following term: 
3.2.1 service chain: an ordered set of functions that is used to enforce differentiated traffic handling 
policies for a traffic flow. 
4 abbreviations and acronyms 
this recommendation uses the following abbreviations and acronyms: 
bgp border gateway protocol 
bod bandwidth on demand 
bss business support system 
caas communications as a service 
cdn content delivery network 
cpe customer premises equipment 
csc cloud service customer 
csp cloud service provider 
