cloud computing management 2 
 
  479 
to be instantiated and become available for use by the cloud service users. in other words, a cloud application 
needs to be executed to make one or more cloud services available. 
cloud service providers need to increasingly offer multi -cloud platform solutions to suppor t the above 
scenarios. such solutions will need to be flexible and effective in managing resources acro ss multiple cloud 
service providers [itu-t y.3501]. 
these solutions can be realized using cloud services, delivered through cloud computing capabilities with 
reusable services. cloud service providers need to develop a deep insight into, and understanding of, the run-
time aspects of service delivery as well as the management o f these services and the resources required to 
deliver them. 
therefore, there is a need for a common concept for end to end resource management across multiple cloud 
service providers. 
complex, media -rich, composite services use a variety of both telecommu nication and information 
technology (it) infrastructures and are composed of individual service components that may be acquired 
from, or exposed to, third parties. 
6.2 service delivery management structure 
the framework described in this recommendation can  be used to enable the delivery of cloud services, 
independent of the underlying software or network technologies. this framework, which is a service delivery 
management structure, needs to address the full cloud services lifecycle, covering such important use cases 
as service composition, aggregation and service catalogues. 
management of cloud servi ces needs to provide a framework for the essential building blocks required to 
manage the delivery of cloud services and foster the basis for detailed service delivery management. 
one objective is to provide a means to allow consistent end to end managemen t, including accounting, of 
services exposed by and across, domains and platforms of different cloud service providers. a standard 
framework and best practices are needed to support business practices associated with multiple provider 
cooperation throughout the lifecycle of the service and to foster wide adoption of the standard artefacts in 
any architecture, technology environment and service domain. 
achieving consistent maintenance of cloud services sourced from different domains is a challenging task. to 
address this challenge, an approach that enables and supports consistent management access to the cloud 
services is desired. such an approach is desired to com plement the service capabilities exposed by the 
software component's interfaces with additional lifecycle management operations. this approach should 
also enable reusability of services in different environments, especially in cloud computing. 
frameworks, architecture, design patterns and best practices are required to realize the above objectives for 
the cloud service providers. the interfaces of individual service components are not the primary focus as the 
actual interfaces may vary across different impl ementations, vendor technologies and operator 
requirements. standard design principles and frameworks are required to allow for the rapid development, 
deployment and management of composite multi -cloud services provided by the telecommunication 
industry. 
this provides a framework to guide architects and developers of cloud services regarding the end to end 
management of cloud computing resources. 
6.3 difference between cloud computing and the traditional form of computing 
there are two principal differences  between cloud computing and the traditional form of computing that 
make the problem of managing resources associated with cloud services more difficult. one difference is the 
virtualization of the computing and network resources in the cloud computing ref erence architecture 
[itu-t y.3502]. the other difference is that multiple cloud service provider domains are increasingly involved 
in the delivery of cloud services and this environment greatly complicates end to end resource management. 
  
