xaas 3 
 
  711 
3.1.11 party [b-itu-t y.3500]: natural person or legal person, whether or not incorporated, or a group of 
either. 
3.1.12 role [itu-t y.3502]: a set of activities that serves a common purpose. 
3.1.13 sub-role [itu-t y.3502]: a subset of the activities of a given role. 
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation 
none. 
4 abbreviations and acronyms 
this recommendation uses the following abbreviations and acronyms: 
bdaas big data as a service 
bdap big data application provider 
bdip big data infrastructure provider 
bdsu big data service user 
csc cloud service customer 
csn cloud service partner 
csp cloud service provider 
dp data provider 
oss operations support systems 
5 conventions 
this recommendation follows the conventions regarding the diagrams shown in figure 5-1 of [itu-t y.3502]. 
6 overview of bdaas functional architecture 
big data as a service (bdaas) is a cloud servic e category, which provides cloud service customers (cscs) the 
ability to collect, store, analyze, visualize and manage data using a big data paradigm. bdaas services utilize 
capabilities of the cloud computing infrastructure, platform and applications, which are necessary to build a 
big data ecosystem. 
6.1 framework of bdaas functional architecture 
bdaas provides big data services based on a cloud service environment. the bdaas functional architecture 
defined in this recommendation follows the concept of constructing the user view, the functional view and 
aspects defined in [itu-t y.3502]. the user view and functional view are specified as follows: 
– user view: the system context, parties, roles, sub-roles and cloud computing activities; 
– functional view: the functions necessary for the support of cloud computing activities. 
the user view and requirements of bdaas are defined in [itu-t y.3600]. 
this recommendation defines: 
– functional components required f or the functional view based on the requirements 
in [itu-t y.3600]; 
– cross-cutting aspects for bdaas. 
6.1.1 user view for bdaas architecture 
the user view of bdaas  (see [itu -t y.3600]) identifies the system c ontext including roles, sub -roles and 
activities as well as data and service flows as shown in figure 6-1. 
