framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   221 
table ii.8 – configurations of clustering processing units – use case 
title a use case of configurations of clustering processing units 
description when a csc: cloud service user requests a cloud service, a csp: cloud service operations 
manager is responsible for providing computing resources, which can run the cloud service. 
in this case, based on the multiple processing units in the physical machine, it is possible for 
the csp: cloud operations manager to configure a clustering system which can distribute the 
computational loads among the multiple processing resources. 
therefore, in order to utilize highly integrated computing resources efficiently, the csp: cloud 
operations manager has a responsibility to configure the clustered processing units. the 
configuration can be changed dynamically and elastically according to the cloud service's 
requirements from the csc: cloud service user. in other words, according to the required 
cloud service's characteristics (e.g., network usage ratio, computing capability, the 
proportion of memory intensive computation, an efficiency of distributed computing), the 
configuration of the cluster system can vary. 
in case of a cloud service based on distributed processing clustering configuration is suitable 
because data analysis work load can be divided into several processing units. on the other 
hand, when a csc: cloud service user requests a cloud service, where data communications 
occur intensively among processing units, minimum numbers of processing units are 
recommended as a clustered resources. 
in addition, the networking between each processing unit for clustering can be basically 
based on a legacy network such as ethernet. for a cloud service that is clustering -favourable 
but has high proportion of network usage among processing units, a proprietary network for 
clustering environment can be provided to eliminate the overhead of network 
communications.  
roles/sub-roles csp: cloud service operations manager, csc: cloud service user 
figure 
 
pre-conditions 
(optional) 
csc: cloud service user wants to use a cloud service. 

