 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   395 
recommendation is independent of any service or scenarios -specific model (e.g., web services, 
parlay x or rest), assumptions or solutions. this recommendation describes a structured approach 
for defining, designing and implementing secure and manageable service -oriented capabilities in 
telecommunication cloud computing environments. 
 uri: http://www.itu.int/itu-t/recommendations/rec.aspx?rec=12615  
• itu-t x.1641: this recommendation provides generic security guidelines for cloud service customer 
(csc) data in cloud computing. it analyses th e csc data security life cycle and proposes security 
requirements at each stage of the data life cycle. furthermore, the recommendation provides 
guidelines on when each control should be used for best security practice. 
 uri: https://www.itu.int/itu-t/recommendations/rec.aspx?rec=12853 
• itu-t x. 1603: recommendation itu -t x.1603 analyses data security requirements for the 
monitoring service of cloud computing which includes monitor ing data scope requirements, 
monitoring data life cycles, security requirements of monitoring data acquisition and security 
requirements of monitoring data storage. monitoring data scope requirements include the 
necessary monitoring scope that csps should provide to maintain cloud security and the biggest 
monitoring scope of csps. monitoring data life cycles includes data creation, data store, data use, 
data migrate, data present, data destroy and data backup. monitoring acquisition determines the 
security requirements of the acquisition techniques of a monitoring service. monitoring data 
storage determines the security requirements for csps to store the monitoring data. 
 uri: https://www.itu.int/itu-t/workprog/wp_item.aspx?isn=13562  
• itu-t x.sriaas: infrastructure as a service (iaas) is one of the representative categories of cloud 
services, in which the cloud capabilities service provided to the csc is an infrastructure capabilities 
type. iaas environments and virtualized services are facing more challenges and threats than 
traditional information technology infrastructure and applications. platforms that share computing, 
storage and network services need protections specific to the threats in the iaas environment. if 
these threats are not carefully addressed, it will have very negative impacts on the development of 
iaas services. this recommendation aims to document the security requirements of public iaas. this 
will be helpful for iaas csps to improve the overall security level throughout the planning, 
constructing and operating stages of iaas platform and services. this work also complements the 
security standardization activity related to software-defined networks, especially x.sdnsec. 
 uri: https://www.itu.int/itu-t/workprog/wp_item.aspx?isn=13578 
• itu-t x.srnaas: network as a service (naas) is one of the representative cloud service categories, 
in which the capability provided to the cloud service customer (csc) is transport connectivity and 
related network capabilities. naas services can provide any of three cloud capabilities: naas 
application service, naas platform service and naas connectivity service. all three kinds of naas 
service face particular security challenges such as application security vulnerabilities, security risks 
of network virtualization, eavesdropping, etc. r ecommendation itu -t x.srnaas analyses the 
security challenges and security requirements of naas application, naas platform and naas 
connectivity. this recommendation could help naas service providers to address security issues. 
the capabilities provided by  this recommendation will take into account the national legal and 
regulatory obligations in individual member states in which the naas services operate. the 
methodology of this proposal would follow the recommendations of clause 10 in recommendation 
itu-t x.1601. 
 uri: https://www.itu.int/itu-t/workprog/wp_item.aspx?isn=13590 
• itu-t x.srcaas : recommendation itu -t x.srcaas recommends the security requirements of 
communication as a service (caas) application environments with the identification of the risks. the 
recommendation describes the scenarios and the features of caas, into which multi-communication 
capabilities are plugged. moreover, some special /unique risks are identified, w hich are caused by 
the unique features of caas. the corresponding security requirements are recommended for the 
following aspects: identity fraud, orchestration security, multi -device security, countering spam, 
privacy protection, infrastructure attack, attack from infrastructure, intranet attack and so on. the 
