2 cloud computing management  
 
468  
– service test management: provides the capabilities for ensuring that the various services are working 
properly. in the fulfilment proce ss, the service test is responsible for ensuring that the assigned 
service works as designed. in the assurance process, the service test is responsible for service 
trouble/problem distinguishing; 
– service order management: provides the capabilities for ma naging the e2e lifecycle of a service 
request. this includes validating service availability as well as the service order request. it also 
includes serv ice order issuance, service and/or product order decomposition, and service order 
tracking along with orchestrating the activation and the test processes; 
– service problem management: provides the capabilities for receiving service affecting customer 
problems as well as network troubles/faults, relating the various problems, and resolving them in 
an efficient manner; 
– service quality management: provides the capabilities for monitoring and managing the levels of 
service. service quality measurements are c ollected and compared against established quality 
indicators, and the conclusions made available to interested parties; 
– service performance management: provides the capabilities for monitoring, analysing and reporting 
on the e2e service performance. this should include a real-time e2e view to ensure that each service 
is functioning correctly as well as a historical view; 
– service rating/discounting management: provides the capabilities for ensuring that the customer 
receives an invoice that is reflective  of all the billable events delivered by the service provider 
dictated by their business relationship. 
9 functional requirements for service management in cloud-aware telecommunication 
management system 
this clause provides functional requirements for service management in a cloud-aware telecommunication 
management system. 
9.1 service catalogue management 
in a cloud-aware telecommunication management system, the service catalogue management requirements 
include: 
– it is required that service catalogue management provides functions to  manage cloud service 
information. it is required that service catalogue management provides functions to  manage 
information of tc-hybrid services. 
9.2 service inventory management 
in a cloud-aware telecommunication management system, the service inventory management requirements 
include: 
– it is required that service inventory management provides functions to  manage the attributes of 
cloud service; 
– it is required that service inventory management provides functions to  trace the relationship 
between the cloud service or tc-hybrid service and resource. 
9.3 service order management 
in a cloud -aware telecommunication management system, the s ervice order management requirements 
include: 
– it is required that the service order management provides functions to  validate cloud service 
availability as well as the cloud service order request; 
– it is required that the service order management provides functions to  manage service and or 
product order decomposition which contain cloud service; 
