3 xaas  
 
682  
resources, physical resources) described by the model. a naas resource model provides the 
information model of naas resources, e.g., the topology attributes of a physical and virtualized 
network such as bandwidth or latency of corresponding links, and the operational parameters 
needed to support the deployment of these naas resources. 
2) provisioning functional component (see clause 9.2.5.3 of [itu-t y.3502]). this component provides 
the capabilities for provisioning naas services; 
3) monitoring and reporting functional component (see clause 9.2.5.3 of [itu -t y.3502]) . 
this component provides the capabilities for monitoring services including naas services provided 
by the naas csp; 
4) service policy management functional component (see clause 9.2.5.3 of [itu-t y.3502]). the service 
policy management functional component provides capabilities to define, store and retrieve policies 
that apply to cloud services including naas services; 
5) service automation functional component (see clause 9.2.5.3 of [itu -t y.3502]) . the service 
automation functional component provides capabilities for service delivery including the 
management and execution of service t emplates and the orchestration of services , which include 
naas services. the service automation functional component realizes the naas service orchestration 
functionalities described in clause 7.3. 
 in order to realize the functionalities for naas service orchestration, a unified abstract modelling of 
naas services provided to the naas csc by the service layer is a must. with such modelling being 
defined, the naas service automation functional component when receiving a composite naas 
service request from the naas csc will be able to decompose the request into several independent 
naas resources order requests and distribute each of these independent requests to the 
appropriate control or oss functionalities of the naas csp specific domains, automatically. the oss-
naas se rvice automation functional component provides coordination, aggregation and 
composition of multiple services in order to deliver naas services. 
 the oss-naas service automation functional component provides service orchestration according 
to the naas serv ice model and naas service operational policy model. the service automation 
functional component handles naas service requests received from the naas csc and decomposes 
these naas service requests according to the naas service models and policy models, respectively. 
6) service level management functional component (see clause 9.2.5.3 of [itu-t y.3502]). the service 
level management functional component provides capabilities for managing the service levels of a 
particular cloud service, aiming t o ensure that  the cloud service meets the requirements of the 
service level agreement (sla) which applies to the service. this includes service level management 
of naas services; 
7) incident and problem management functional component (see clause 9.2.5.3 of [itu-t y.3502]). the 
incident and problem management functional component provides capabilities for the capture of 
incident or problem reports and managing those reports through to resolution. incidents and 
problems can be detected and reported by the na as csp's systems, or they can be detected and 
reported by naas cscs; 
8) peer service management functional component (see clause 9.2.5.3 of [itu -t y.3502]). the  peer 
service managemen t functional component provides capabilities for connecting the naas csp's 
operational support systems and business support systems to the administration capabilities and 
business capabilities of peer naas csps, in respect of peer cloud services that are used by the naas 
csp; 
9) service inventory functional component . the servi ce inventory functional component provides 
contains and maintains information about the instances of naas services deployed by the naas csp . 
note – this component may also apply to cloud service categories different from naas. 
8.3.2 oss-ns functional components 
note – the following description is based on  an adaptation of the oss functional components as described in 
clause 9.2.5.3 of [itu-t y.3502]. 
