2 cloud computing management  
 
540  
table i.6 – data policy language 
figure (optional) 
 
cppl: compact privacy policy language 
pre-conditions (optional) the csp (naas), csps (paas) and csp (saas) form an inter-cloud relationship to optimize 
their own resources and leverage area of service availability. 
post-conditions 
(optional) 
the csp (naas) establishes service chaining (here vhgw) between the csc (paas ) and 
csp (saas). 
the csp (naas) uses data policy language. 
the csp (naas) reallocates service (here access to internet) between csps in the 
federation if kpis drop below threshold (e.g., energy efficiency, resource optimization).  
derived requirements data policy language (see clause 7.1) 
i.7 use case of csc data policy implementation in inter-cloud 
this use case illustrates inter -cloud data policy processing and usage aspects between csc and csp or 
between csps. the inter-cloud intermediary pattern used to illustrate the use case is an example only. 
table i.7 – csc data policy implementation in inter-cloud 
title csc data policy implementation in inter-cloud 
description the csp (naas) offers access to internet (service) over virtual home gateway (vhgw) 
facilities using network functions virtualization (nfv) and software-defined networking 
(sdn) technologies. the csp (naas) is involved in an inter-cloud intermediary pattern 
with two peer csps (paas), i.e., csp1 (paas) and csp2 (paas). the csp (naas) respects 
data policy related to vhgw data in the inter-cloud environment. the csp (naas) uses 
inter-cloud data policy management to process and use inter-cloud data. the csp (naas) 
lets the csc provide data policy related to csc workloads passing into the inter-cloud 
environment. the idpap acts as access control for csc data policies. the data policies 
are stored at the idpip . the idpdp collects information about available resources and 
corresponding policies of peer csps to be able to decide which csp can process and use 
vhgw data. the idpep establishes the service (here vhgw) between the csp (naas) and 
one of csp1 (paas) and csp2 (paas) selected by the dpdp . the idpep is responsible for 
monitoring the inter-cloud environment and fulfilment of csc data policy. in the case of 
violation, the idpep triggers the idpdp to establish the service (here vhgw) between 
the csp (naas) and other csps, which fulfils the csc data policy. 
roles csc, csp (naas), csp1 (paas), csp2 (paas) 

