security 7 
 
  1047 
1 scope 
this recommendation | international standard gives guidelines for information security controls applicable 
to the provision and use of cloud services by providing: 
– additional implementation guidance for relevant controls specified in iso/iec 27002; 
– additional controls with implementation guidance that specifically relate to cloud services. 
this recommendation | international standard provides controls and implementation guidance for both 
cloud service providers and cloud service customers. 
2 normative references 
the following recommendations and international standards contain provisions which, through reference in 
this text, constitute provisions of this recommendation | international standard. at the time of publication, 
the editions indicated were valid. all recommendations and standards are subject to revision, and parties to 
agreements based on this recommendation | international standard are encouraged to investigate the 
possibility of applying the most recent edition of the recommendations and standards listed below. 
members of iec and iso maintain registers of currently valid international standards. the 
telecommunication standardization bureau of the itu maintains a list of curre ntly valid itu -t 
recommendations. 
2.1 identical recommendations | international standards 
– recommendation itu-t y.3500 (in force) | iso/iec 17788: (in force), information technology – cloud 
computing – overview and vocabulary. 
– recommendation itu-t y.3502 (in force) | iso/iec 17789: (in force), information technology – cloud 
computing – reference architecture. 
2.2 additional references 
– iso/iec 27000 : (in force) , information technology – security techniques – information security 
management systems – overview and vocabulary. 
– iso/iec 27002:2013, information technology – security techniques – code of practice for information 
security controls. 
3 definitions and abbreviations 
3.1 terms defined elsewhere 
for the purposes of this recommendation | international standard, the terms and definitions given in iso/iec 
27000, rec. itu-t y.3500 | iso/iec 17788 , rec. itu-t y.3502 | iso/iec 17789  and the following definitions 
apply: 
3.1.1 the following term is defined in iso 19440: 
– capability: quality of being able to perform a given activity. 
3.1.2 the following terms are defined in iso/iec 27040: 
–  data breach : compromise of security that leads to the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, 
alteration, unauthorized disclosure of, or access to protected data transmitted, stored, or otherwise 
processed. 
–  secure multi -tenancy: type of multi -tenancy that employs security controls to explicitly guard 
against data breaches and provides validation of these controls for proper governance. 
note 1 – secure multi-tenancy exists when the risk profile of an individual tenant is no greater than it would be in a 
dedicated, single-tenant environment. 
note 2 – in very secure environments, even the identity of the tenants is kept secret. 
