5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
886  
8.5 interoperability testing of i/o performance between the csc and csp 
the test object of i/o performance is to verify that the csc constrains the i/o traffic of a particular vm with 
a specified level. the test case of i/o performance can be found in appendix ii.2.5. 
8.6 interoperability testing of storage life cycle management between the csc and csp 
the test object of storage life cycle management is to verify that the csc  manages storage with various 
operations including create, attach, detach, query and delete storage. the test case of storage life cycle 
management can be found in appendix ii.2.6. 
8.7 interoperability testing of storage utilization status inquiring between the csc and csp 
the test object of storage utilization status inquiring is to verify that the csc inquires storage utilization status 
information including used space and unused s pace of storage. the test case of storage utilization status 
inquiring can be found in appendix ii.2.7. 
9 network service interoperability testing between the csc and csp 
network service interoperability testing between the csc and csp valuates the interaction between the csc 
and csp for network service and related management function s, which includ e network policy migration, 
network qos, network address translation, network isolation, ip address allocation, ip address reservation, 
load balance, firewall, multipath routing  and network information inquiring. for a  description of related 
functional requirements refer to [itu-t y.3513]. 
9.1 interoperability testing of network policy migration between the csc and csp 
the test object of network policy migration is to verify that the csc migrates the vm while the network policy 
(generally includes access control list, bandwidth limitation and priority policy) is consistent before and after 
vm migration. the test case of network policy migration can be found in appendix ii.3.1. 
9.2 interoperability testing of network qos between the csc and csp 
the test object of network qos is to verify that the csc  configures network qos for the vm , including 
bandwidth limitation, bandwidth reservation, traffic shaping, traffic classification and congestion avoidance. 
the test case of network qos can be found in appendix ii.3.2. 
9.3 interoperability testing of network address translation between the csc and csp 
the test object of network address translation is to verify that the csc configures the mapping between an 
internal ip address and external ip address of a specific vm. the test case of network address translation can 
be found in appendix ii.3.3.  
9.4 interoperability testing of network isolation between the csc and csp 
the test object of network isolation is to verify that the csc 's tenant network is isolated even though the 
network address is overlapped with another tenants' network. the test case of net work isolation can be 
found in appendix ii.3.4. 
9.5 interoperability testing of ip address allocation between the csc and csp 
the test object of ip address allocation is to verify that the csc allocates an ip address to the vm statically or 
dynamically. the test case of ip address allocation can be found in appendix ii.3.5. 
9.6 interoperability testing of ip address reservation between the csc and csp 
the test object of ip address reservation is to verify that the csc  reserves an ip addre ss or a range of 
ip-addresses for specific vm(s). the test case of ip address reservation can be found in appendix ii.3.6. 
