framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   195 
table i.4 – etsi related specifications  
specification summary published  
hardware interoperability 
requirements specification [b-etsi 
eve007] 
the document develops a set of normative 
interoperability requirements for the nfv hardware 
ecosystem and telecommunications physical 
environment to support nfv deployment.  
2017-03 
i.2 relationship with related specifications from other sdos 
table i.5 analyses the relationship between functional requirement introduced in this recommendation and 
the related specification from other sdos. the major differences between this recommendation and other 
related specifications are as follows: 
– 'monitoring environment condition' (see clause 7.1.6) and 'no additional ports' (see clause 7.5) are 
not addressed in the specifications identified in i.1 
– this recommendation introduced the physical machine with functional requirements derived by 
use cases with general p urpose; other deliverables from other sdos are specific for server 
implementation or interface in detail. 
table i.5 – relationship with related specifications from other sdos  
no. requirements in this 
recommendation 
relationship with related specifications from other sdos 
1 virtualization 
instruction set 
– [b-ocp 1s] provides virtualization instruction set as 'the twin lakes 1s 
server is designed to use intel xeon processor d-2191 utilizing the 
performance and advanced intelligence of intel xeon processors packaged 
into a dense, lowpower soc' in clause 3. 
– [b-ocp bs] provides virtualization instruction set as 'intel xeon 
haswell/broadwell-ep' in clause 2 table 2-1. 
– [b-ocp hsas] provides virtualization instruction set as 'the motherboard is 
designed to support dual intel xeon e5-2600 v3 and v4 series processors 
and up to 2048gb lrdimm 3ds/1024gb lrdimm/ 512gb rdimm ddr4 
memory. leveraging advanced technology from intel, the motherboard is 
capable of offering scalable 32- and 64- bit computing, high-bandwidth 
memory design and lightning-fast pci-e bus implementation' in clause 7. 
– [b- ocp imbh] provides virtualization instruction set as 'the efficiency 
performance motherboard, built with the intel xeon e5-2600 processor, was 
originally was code-named the sandy bridge-ep motherboard' in clause 4. 
– [b-ocp oapm] provides virtualization instruction set as 'cpu: amd epyc 
processors' in clause 5. 
– [b-ocp mb] provides virtualization instruction set as 'intel motherboard 
v3.1 (also referred to "motherboard" or "the motherboard" in this 
document, unless noted otherwise) is based on intel xeon processor e5 -
2600 v3 (formerly code-named haswell-ep processor) product family cpu 
architecture' in clause 4.1 
