xaas 3 
 
    643 
3.1.6 cloud service customer data [itu-t y.3500]: class of data objects under the control, by legal or other 
reasons, of the cloud service customer that were input to the cloud service, or resulted from exercising the 
capabilities of the cloud service by or on behalf of the clo ud service customer via the published interface of 
the cloud service. 
note 1 – an example of legal controls is copyright. 
note 2 – it may be that the cloud service contains or operates on data that is not cloud service customer data; this 
might be data mad e available by the cloud service providers, or obtained from another source, or it might be publicly 
available data. however, any output data produced by the actions of the cloud service customer using the capabilities 
of the cloud service on this data is likely to be cloud service customer data, following the general principles of copyright, 
unless there are specific provisions in the cloud service agreement to the contrary.  
3.1.7 cloud service provider [itu-t y.3500]: party which makes cloud services available.  
3.1.8 cloud service provider data  [itu-t y.3500]: class of data objects, specific to the operation of the 
cloud service, under the control of the cloud service provider. 
note – cloud service provider data includes but is not limited to resource con figuration and utilization information, 
cloud service specific virtual machine, storage and network resource allocations, overall data centre configuration and 
utilization, physical and virtual resource failure rates, operational costs and so on.  
3.1.9 infrastructure as a service [itu-t y.3500]: clo ud service category in which the cloud capabilities 
type provided to the cloud service customer is an infrastructure capabilities type.  
note – the cloud service customer does not manage or control the underlying physical and virtual resources, but does 
have control over operating systems, storage, and deployed applications that use the physical and virtual resources. 
the cloud service customer may also have limited ability to control certain networking components (e.g., host firewalls). 
3.1.10 infrastructure capabilities type  [itu-t y.3500]: cloud capabilities type in which the cloud service 
customer can provision and use processing, storage or networking resources. 
3.1.11 open virtualization format  [b-iso/iec ovf ]: an open, secure, portable, efficient and extensible 
format for the packaging and distribution of software to be run in virtual machines. 
3.1.12 party [itu-t y.3500]: natural person or legal person, whether or not incorporated, or a group of 
either. 
3.1.13 tenant [itu-t y.3500]: group of cloud ser vice users sharing access to a set of physical and virtual 
resources. 
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation 
none. 
4 abbreviations and acronyms 
this recommendation uses the following abbreviations and acronyms: 
cpu  central processing unit 
csc  cloud service customer 
csp  cloud service provider 
lun   logical unit number 
iaas  infrastructure as a service 
ip   internet protocol 
i/o  input/output 
naas  network as a service 
nat   network address translation 
nic   network interface card 
