8 assisting developing countries  
 
1104  
the data centres are built to tier iii standard with multiple dark fibre and mpls links, multiple dwdm and 
dual full stack ipv4 and ipv6 support. 
the zambia national data ce ntre is cognisant of the challenges affecting cloud computing uptake in the 
country. among the challenges is connectivity. the data centres have been declared as carrier neutral data 
centres allowing all isps and carriers in the country to form a local traffic fabric loop at the data centres. with 
this, data centre clients have a choice of internet service providers to choose from as and when service level 
agreements (slas) are not met. 
in cognizance of security challenges, measures have been taken to mitig ate these challenges by adopting 
best practices from regional data centres in kenya and south africa. the data centres have adopted iso 27001 
and is in the process of undergoing the payment card industry data security standard ( pci dss) to optimise 
security as the centre will handle financial data. 
in order to increase client confidence and trust, the zndc facilities are undergoing tier iii certification with 
the uptime institute (ui) to guarantee availability and operational and sustainability of the facility. 
 
case study 2: tunisie télécom 
tunisie télécom, the incumbent telecom operator in tunisia, considers data centres as an extension of its 
infrastructure to support the convergence of communication and information technologies. in this regard, 
tunisie télécom has built, to date, three data centres, as follows: 
a) primary data center: carthage data centre 
located in the northern suburb of the capital tunis, and inaugurated in october 2013, this data centre, is 
the largest data centre of tunisie t élécom (space of the data centre: 2 700 m2, hosting space: 660 m2) and 
it has the largest capacities among tunisie télécom's data centres in terms of hosting (200 racks), energy 
and connectivity.  
this data centre is iso 27001-certified (information security management system) since may 2016 and it is 
compliant with the specifications of iso 14001 ( environmental management system ) and tier iii 
certifications (the process of request of these two certifications is ongoing). carthage data centre is 
currently hosting the cloud computing platform of tunisie télécom as well as data for many clients from 
tunisia. 
b) secondary data centre: kasba data centre 
this data centre is located in the capital tunis, around 20 km from the primary data centre. it was the first 
data centre established by tunisie télécom over an area of 280 m². this data centre is hosting the saas 
platform of tunisie télécom. 
c) disaster recovery data centre: kairouan data centre 
this data centre was recently established and it is locat ed in the western reg ion of the country, around 
160 km from the primary data centre. it is used for disaster recovery and it guarantees a physical and 
geographical redundancy. 
each data centre is compliant with [tia -942 standards], and each of them is conn ected with at least two 
different fibre links to tunisie télécom's mpls backbone to ensure redundancy (10  gbit/s fibre links for 
carthage and kairouan data centres and 1 gbit/s fibre links for kasba data centre).  
  
