1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
194  
table i.2 – dmtf related specifications  
specification summary published  
redfish scalable platforms 
management api specification 
[b-dmtf rfapi] 
this specification is to define the protocols, data model 
and behaviors, as well as other architectural components 
needed for an interoperable, cross-vendor, remote and 
out-of-band capable interface that meets the 
expectations of cloud and web-based it professionals for 
scalable platform management. while large scale systems 
are the primary focus, the specifications are also capable 
of being used for more traditional system platform 
management implementations. 
2018-08-23 
redfish host interface specification 
[b-dmtf rfhi] 
this specification defines functional requirements for 
redfish host interfaces. in the context of this document, 
the term "host interface" refers to interfaces that can be 
used by software running on a computer system to access 
the redfish service that is used to manage that computer 
system. 
2017-12-11 
redfish interoperability profiles 
[b-dmtf rfp] 
the redfish interoperability profile is a json document 
that contains schema-level, property-level and registry-
level requirements. at the property level, these 
requirements can include a variety of conditions under 
which the requirement applies. 
2018-05-15 
i.1.3 snia 
the storage networking industry association (snia) is a non -profit organization made up of member 
companies spanning information technology. a globally recognized and trusted authority, snia's mission is 
to lead the storage industry in developing and promoting vendor -neutral architectures, standards and 
educational services that facilitate the efficient management, movement and security of information. 
table i.3 – snia related specifications 
specification summary published  
snia swordfish specification v1.0.6 
[b-snia sf] 
the swordfish scalable storage management api 
("swordfish") defines a restful interface and a 
standardized data model to provide a scalable, customer-
centric interface for managing storage and related data 
services. it extends the redfish scalable platforms 
management api specification (dsp0266) from the 
dmtf. 
2018-05-25 
i.1.4 etsi 
the european telecommunications standards institute (etsi) is the recognized regional standards body – 
european standards organization (eso) – dealing with telecommunications, broadcasting and other 
electronic communications networks and services. 
the etsi nfv eve working group seeks to develop the necessary requirements to enable a common set of 
hardware elements and physical environments (e.g., data centres) that can be used to support network 
function virtualization (nfv) services [b-etsi eve007].  
