intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  865 
3.2.2 cloud interoperability testing : verifying functions and interaction that realize the cloud 
interoperability.  
4 abbreviations and acronyms 
this recommendation uses the following abbreviations and acronyms: 
bss business support systems 
ccra cloud computing reference architecture 
csc cloud service customer 
csp cloud service provider 
iaas infrastructure as a service 
ict information and communication technology 
it information technology 
oss operational support systems 
paas platform as a service 
qos quality of service 
saas software as a service 
sla service-level-agreement 
vm virtual machine 
5 overview of cloud computing interoperability testing 
interoperability in the context of cloud computing includes the ability of a cloud service customer to interact 
with a cloud service and exchange information according to a prescribed method and obtain predictable 
results. typically, interoperability implies that the cloud serv ice operates according to an agreed 
specification, one that is possibly standardized. the cloud service customer should be able to use widely 
available ict facilities in-house when interacting with the cloud services, avoiding the need to use proprietary 
or highly specialized software. the interoperability of cloud services can be categorized by the management 
and functional interfaces of the cloud services. many existing it standards contribute to the interoperability 
between cloud consumer applications and cloud services, and between cloud services themselves. there are 
standardization efforts that are specifically initiated to address the interoperability issues in the cloud system. 
interoperability also includes the ability for one cloud service to work with other cloud services, either 
through an inter-cloud provider relationship, or where a cloud service customer uses different multiple cloud 
services in some form of composition to achieve its business goals.  
interoperability stretches beyond the cloud services themselves and also includes the interaction of the cloud 
service customer with the cloud service management facilities of the cloud service provider. ideally, the cloud 
service customer should have a consistent and interoperable interface to the  cloud service management 
functionality and be able to interact with two or more cloud service providers without needing to deal with 
each provider in a specialized way.  
the main purpose of interoperability testing is to evaluate the interaction between c loud service customer 
and cloud service provider to obtain predictable results, collaboration among different cloud services, and 
consistency and interoperability of management interface across different services.  
a cloud capabilities type is a classification of the functionality provided by a cloud service to the cloud service 
customer, based on the resources used. there are three different cloud capabilities types [itu -t y.3500]: 
infrastructure capabilities type, platform capabilities type, and applicati on capabilities type, which are 
different because they follow the principle of separation of concerns, i.e. , they have minimal functionality 
overlap between each other. the interoperability testing in different cloud capabilities type is different; there 
are three major interoperability testing scenarios as follows: 
