5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
938  
i.13 snia references and associated summaries 
[iso 17826:2012] – cloud data management interface 
cdmi specifies the interface to access cloud storage and to manage the data stored therein. it is applicable 
to developers who are implementing or using cloud storage. 
i.14 tmf references and associated summaries 
[tmf gb917] – sla management handbook 
this document provides a full set of definitions, rules and methodology for the specification, deployment and 
management of slas, as well as useful tools and best practices, for use by both customers and service 
providers. 
[tmf gb963] – cloud sla application note 
this document is intended for enterprise csps desiring to offer a commercially credible sla based on eclc 
"enterprise-grade external compute iaas v1.0", and for an enterprise customer seeking enterprise -grade 
slas. 
[tmf tr174] – enterprise-grade iaas requirements 
this document describes the requirements for enterprise-grade external compute iaas from the perspective 
of the enterprise consumer. sla clarity and cross -service provider commonality of service level definitions 
are specified in this document as one of the key requirements of enterprise-grade iaas. 
[tmf tr178] – enabling end-to-end cloud sla management 
this documents describes the requirements for enabling end-to-end cloud sla management, which 
recommends a set of business considerations and architecture design principles that are required to support 
end-to-end cloud sla management with the aim to facilitate discussion regarding sla consistency across 
cloud deployment models and services models. 
[tmf tr194] – muli-cloud service management accelerator pack-introduction 
overview of multi-cloud management business challenges and how tm forum is addressing them. 
i.15 itu-t draft recommendation 
[itu-t y.3512] – cloud computing – functional requirements of network as a service 
this recommendation provides use cases and functional requirements of network as a service (naas), one 
of the representative cloud service categories. this recommendation covers the following: 
• high level concept of naas;  
• functional requirements for naas; 
• typical use cases for naas. 
this recommendation provides use cases and requirements of naas application, naas platform and naas 
connectivity services. general requirements on naas can be found at [itu-t y.3501]. 
[itu-t y.3513] – cloud computing – functional requirements of infrastructure as a service  
this recommendation provides use cases and functional requirements of iaas, one of the representative 
cloud service categories. this recommendation covers the following: 
• general description of iaas;  
• functional requirements for iaas; 
• typical use cases for iaas. 
