 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   261 
7.2 virtual machine requirements 
the virtual machine provides a virtualized and isolated computing environment for ea ch guest operating 
system (os). 
the virtual machine requirement includes: 
• it is required to support migration  of virtual machines between different physical computing 
machines. 
7.2.1 cpu virtualization 
the central proce ssing unit  (cpu) virtualization allows running mult iple virtual cpus (vcpu) on a single 
physical cpu. 
the cpu virtualization requirement includes: 
• the virtual machine's vcpus' computing capability can optionally be specified as a fraction of a 
physical cpu. 
7.2.2 memory virtualization 
the memory virtualization includes memory allocation at the start of a virtual machine, memory utilization 
monitoring during virtual machine operation and memory release at the shutdown of a virtual machine.  
the memory virtualization requirement includes: 
• it is recommended that while a virtual machine is active,  the hypervisor monitors memory usage 
and reallocates unused memory to other virtual machines dynamically. 
7.2.3 input/output device virtualization 
the input/output (i/o) virtualization allows division of the physical i/o device into several logical instances 
for use by different virtual machines. 
the i/o device virtualization requirements include: 
• it is required for the hypervisor to support i/o virtualization capabilities. 
• it is required that a virtual machine is capable of using virtual i/o devices abstracted from the 
physical i/o devices. 
• the number of virtual i/o devices is prohibited from being constrained by the number of physical 
i/o devices. 
• the data of one virtual machine transferred through a shared physical i/o device is prohibited from 
being exposed to other virtual machines. 
• physical i/o devices can optionally be shared by multiple virtual machines. 
7.2.4 network interface virtualization 
network interface virtualization allows c reating and deleting a virtual network interface for a guest virtual 
machine os regardless of the number of physical network interfaces. 
the network interface virtualization requirements include: 
• it is recommended that a physical network interface can be virtualized into multiple virtual network 
interfaces. 
• it is recommended that the virtual network interfaces from different virtual machines can be 
grouped into one virtual local network.  
7.2.5 duplication of virtual machine 
the duplication of a virtual machine allows creating new virtual machines and virtual machine backup in the 
execution environment. 
the duplication of a virtual machine requirement includes: 
• a virtual machine can optionally be  duplicated to create a new virtual machine with the same 
configuration.  
