intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  893 
ii.1.8 test case: vm template 
table ii.8 shows the test case for vm template. 
table ii.8 – test case: vm template 
vm template test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc creates vms by vm template, including open virtualization format 
(ovf). 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.1.11 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc creates a vm template by exporting a vm as vm 
template in ovf format.  
 
2 check the exported vm template conforms to the format of ovf.  
3 stimulus the csc imports the vm template to create a new vm.  
4 check the configuration and data of the new vm created in step 3 
are consistent with the vm template.  
 
5 stimulus the csc updates the vm template by modifying the vm 
template's name. 
 
6 check the name of vm template changes to a specified name.  
7 stimulus the csc deletes the vm template.  
8 check the vm created which is based on the vm template still 
exists. 
 
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
ii.1.9 test case: vm scaling 
table ii.9 shows the test case for vm scaling. 
table ii.9 – test case: vm scaling 
vm scaling test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc changes the scale of vms dynamically based on the scaling policies 
and monitored events of the vm; this includes configuration change (e.g., cpu, memory, 
network bandwidth increased or decreased) and components change (new vm added or 
removed).  
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.1.4 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc configures vm a; checks the vm status, such as cpu, 
memory resources allocation and its components.  
 
2 stimulus the csc configures the configuration change based scaling 
policy that when memory consumed is more than 90%,  
it allocates twice the memory for vm a automatically. 
 
3 stimulus the csc runs an application on vm a to perform more than 
90% consumption of memory on vm a to trigger auto-
scaling. 
 
4 check vm a is allocated with twice as much memory as before.  
5 stimulus the csc configures the components change based scaling 
policy that when the cpu has consumed more than 90%, add 
a new vm with the same resource configuration as vm a 
automatically. 
 
