1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
92  
the business support systems functional components include:  
• product catalogue; 
• account management; 
• subscription management; 
• billing; 
• accounts. 
9.2.5.4.1 product catalogue 
the product catalogue functional component provides capabilities for cloud service customers to browse a 
list of available service offerings  which they can purchase, plus a set of capabilities for the management of 
the content of the catalogue which are available to staff of the cloud service provider. 
product catalogue entries consist of technical information about each of the service offerin gs (capabilities 
provided by the service, interface definitions for the service including available service operations, security 
information), plus related business information such as pricing or rating. 
9.2.5.4.2 account management 
the account management functional component provides capabilities for managing cloud service customer 
relationships, including: 
• management of contracts; 
• subscriptions to cloud services; 
• entitlements; 
• service pricing, which can involve customer-specific terms such as discounts; 
• the policies that apply to the treatment of cloud service customer data. 
the account management functional component and its related database(s) are subject to stringent requirements for 
availability and security due to the importance and the sensitivity of the data related to customer accounts. 
9.2.5.4.3 subscription management 
the subscription management functional component handles subscriptions from cloud service customers to particular 
cloud services, aiming to record new or changed subscr iption information from the customer and ensure the delivery 
of the subscribed service(s) to the customer. 
9.2.5.4.4 billing 
the billing functional component has capabilities for: 
• the metering and rating of the use of cloud services  by cloud service customers  – where metering is the 
measurement of the consumption of cloud services  by each cloud service customer  and rating is the 
application of pricing schedules to the metering data.  the form of the metering data depends on the nature 
of the cloud service and the pricing schedules can involve customer-specific terms (e.g., discounts) and require 
algorithmic application against the metering data; 
• the generation of invoices based on t he charges for the use of cloud services created by the metering and 
rating function, and the transmission of the invoices to the cloud service customers. invoice data is also lodged 
with the accounts functional component and the account management functional component. 
9.2.5.4.5 accounts 
the accounts functional component holds the capabilities relating to general ledger and general accounting functions, 
including accounts receivable and accounts payable. note that the accounts functional component is used for 
accounting for the cloud service provider  organization itself and does not deal with the maintenance of individual 
customer accounts (those are handled by the account management functional component). 
