 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   79 
image and get it up and running on an equivalent iaas service in a relatively straightforward manner. in an 
saas environment, when a cloud service customer organization wants to move an saas application to a 
different cloud service provider (i.e., switch saas service providers), the cloud service customer needs to be 
able to take their data with them, but the rest of the switching cost will include exporting, mapping and 
importing the data into the new cloud service provider's saas application, and that cost is a function of how 
well the data models and formats of the two saas cloud service providers line up. ideally, saas cloud service 
providers should adopt standard data interchange format(s) relevant to their application domain. changing 
between saas applications can also involve the cloud service customer adapting to a new service interface 
(which relates to the interoperability of the service). 
however, since different cloud capabilities types can have different requirements related to portability, it is 
more useful to focus on specific types of portability such as cloud data portability and cloud application 
portability. 
cloud service customer data is a class of data objects under the control of the cloud service customer. cloud 
data portability allows the cloud service customers the ability to copy cloud service customer data into or 
out of a cloud service through network access or by physical transfer of storage devices. 
cloud application portability allows the migration of items such as a fully-stopped virtual machine instance 
or a machine image (iaas service) from one cloud service provider to another cloud service provider, or the 
migration of application components ( paas service) from one cloud service provider  to another. in both 
cases, there is a related aspect of the support of portability of metadata relating to the application 
components, providing information about the relationships of program components and about the required 
infrastructure for the program components (e.g., load balancing configuration, firewall settings). 
8.5.9 protection of personally identifiable information (pii) 
cloud service providers  should protect the assured, proper and consistent collection, processing, 
communication, use and disposition of personally identifiable information (pii) in relation to cloud services. 
according to established guidelines, one of an organization's key business imperatives is to ensure the 
protection of personally identifiable information (pii). though cloud computing provides a flexible solution 
for shared resources, software and information, it also poses additional confidentiality challenges to cloud 
service customers using cloud services, and also for cloud service providers. 
in many jurisdictions, there are strict rules and regulations applied to the handling of pii – any use of cloud 
services to store and process pii often has to conform to those rules and regulations. 
statutory, regulatory and legal requirements vary by market sector and jurisdiction, and they can change the 
responsibilities of both cloud service customers  and cloud service providers . compliance with such 
requirements is often related to governance and risk management activities. 
8.5.10 resiliency 
resiliency is the ability of a system to provide and maintain an acceptable level of service in the face of faults 
(unintentional, intentional or naturally caused) affecting normal operation. 
resiliency describes the set of monitoring, preventive and responsive processes that enable a cloud service 
to provide continuous operations, or predictable and verifiable outages, through failure and recovery actions. 
these can include hardware, communication and/or software failures, and can occur as isolated incidents or 
in combination, including serial failure. these processes can include both automated and manual actions, 
usually spanning multiple systems, and thus their description and realization are  part of the overall cloud 
infrastructure, not an independent function. 
inherent in resiliency is the realization of risk management  – since resiliency is determined by the least 
resilient component in the system, and cost/performance or other factors can limit the extent to which 
resiliency is possible or practical. the association of risk to value is realized in the implementation choices to 
provide resiliency. 
