framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   119 
6.4.2.2 data manipulation provider 
the data manipulation provider (dm p) provides dsf data by manipulation and manages data operation 
metadata and data manipulation policy (see clause 6.3). a data manipulation provider's activities include: 
– manipulate dsf data;  
– manage data operation metadata; 
– manage data manipulation policy. 
6.4.3 dsf local storage provider 
the dsf local storage provider provides dsf local storage and interfaces to use it. a dsf local storage 
provider's activity includes: 
– provide dsf local storage. 
7 cloud computing based data storage federation system context  
this clause describes how cloud computing can support the three main roles of the dsf ecosystem: dsf 
service customer, dsf service provider and dsf local storage provider.  
by using cloud computing roles, sub -roles and activities, cloud computing based dsf supports more 
extensible features by facilitating on -premises storage resources which connect personal and enterprise 
storage resources.  
the cloud computing based dsf context is defined with new sub -roles and acti vities based on cloud 
computing reference architecture (ccra) [itu -t y.3502]. for cloud computing based dsf, csp:storage 
federation provider (csp:sfp) for federation of dsf local storage  and csp:data manipulation provider 
(csp:dmp) for management of dsf da ta and policies are defined to utilize dsf local storage  as shown in 
table 7-1.  
table 7-1 – mapping roles and sub-roles between data storage federation ecosystem and  
cloud computing based dsf system context 
roles and sub-roles of 
data storage federation ecosystem 
sub-roles of cloud computing based data storage 
federation system context 
dsf service customer csc: cloud service user (csc:csu) 
dsf service provider : storage federation provider, 
dsf service provider : data manipulation provider 
csp: storage federation provider (csp:sfp), 
csp: data manipulation provider (csp:dmp) 
dsf local storage provider csp: cloud service manager (csp:csm) 
figure 7-1 illustrates the cloud computing sub-roles related to dsf. this figure also identifies activities specific 
for dsf and assigns them to cloud computing sub -roles and illustrates how cloud computing supports dsf 
service from the perspective of csp:sfp and csp:dmp. the cloud computing based dsf utilizes other sub -
roles of csp. 
