7 security  
 
1076 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider 
the cloud service customer should request a 
documented description of the termination of service 
process that covers return and removal of cloud service 
customer's assets followed by the deletion of all copies 
of those assets from the cloud service provider's 
systems. 
the description should list all the assets and document 
the schedule for the termination of service, which 
should occur in a timely manner. 
the cloud service provider should provide information 
about the arrangements for the return and removal of 
any cloud service customer's assets upon termination of 
the agreement for the use of a cloud service. 
the asset return and removal arrangements should be 
documented in the agreement and should be performed 
in a timely manner. the arrangements should specify 
the assets to be returned and removed. 
cld.9.5 access control of cloud service customer data in shared virtual environment 
objective: to mitigate information security risks when using the shared virtual environment of cloud computing. 
cld.9.5.1 segregation in virtual computing environments 
control 
a cloud service customer's virtual environment running on a cloud service should be protected from other 
cloud service customers and unauthorized persons. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
(no additional implementation guidance) 
 
the cloud service provider should enforce appropriate 
logical segregation of cloud service customer data, 
virtualized applications, operating systems, storage, and 
network for: 
– the separation of resources used by cloud service 
customers in multi-tenant environments; 
– the separation of the cloud service provider's 
internal administration from resources used by cloud 
service customers. 
where the cloud service involves multi-tenancy, the 
cloud service provider should implement information 
security controls to ensure appropriate isolation of 
resources used by different tenants. 
the cloud service provider should consider the risks 
associated with running cloud service customer-
supplied software within the cloud services offered by 
the cloud service provider. 
other information for cloud services 
implementation of the logical segregation depends upon the technologies applied to the virtualization: 
– network and storage configurations can be virtualized  when a software virtualization function 
provides a virtual environment  (e.g., a virtual operating system). in addition, segregation of cloud 
service customers in software virtualized environments can be designed and implemented using 
segregation functions of the software. 
– when a cloud service customer's information is stored in a physically shared storage area with the 
"meta-data table " of the cloud service, segregation of information from other cloud service 
customers can be implemented with access control on the "meta-data table". 
secure multi-tenancy and related guidance given in "iso/iec 27040, information technology – security 
techniques – storage security" can apply to the cloud computing environment. 
