1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
52  
 
figure 5-1 – legend to the diagrams used throughout  
this recommendation | international standard 
2) this ccra uses the term "ict" and "ict systems", where the abbreviation ict stands for "information 
and communication technology", as defined in clause 3.1332 of iso/iec/ieee 24765. this term is 
used to make it clear that the ccra covers not only the compute and storage technol ogies 
associated with computer systems, but also the communication networks that link systems 
together. 
3) references to terms defined in clause 3 and in rec. itu-t y.3500 | iso/iec 17788 are shown in bold. 
6 cloud computing reference architecture goals and objectives 
cloud computing  is a paradigm for enabling network access to a scalable and elastic pool of shareable 
physical or virtual resources with self -service provisioning and administration on demand. see rec. 
itu-t y.3500 | iso/iec 17788.  
the ccra presented in this recommendation | international standard provides an architectural framework 
that is effective for describing the cloud computing roles, sub-roles, cloud computing activities, cross-cutting 
aspects, as well as the functional architecture and functional components of cloud computing. 
the ccra serves the following goals: 
• to describe the community of stakeholders for cloud computing;  
• to describe the fundamental characteristics of cloud computing systems;  
• to specify basic cloud computing  activities and functional components, and describe their 
relationships to each other and to the environment;  
• to identify principles guiding the design and evolution of the ccra. 
the ccra supports the following important standardization objectives: 
• to enable the production of a coherent set of international standards for cloud computing; 
• to provide a technology-neutral reference point for defining standards for cloud computing;  
• to encourage openness and transparency in the identification of cloud computing benefits and risks.  
the ccra focuses on the requirements of "what" cloud services provide and not on "how to" design cloud-
based solutions and implementations. the ccra does not represent the system arch itecture of a specific 
cloud computing system, although it could put constraints on a specific system. the ccra is not tied to any 
specific vendor products, services or reference implementation; nor does it define prescriptive solutions that 
inhibit innovation. 

