1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
146  
to enhance the operations of the cloud service broker, its activities  defined in [itu -t y.3502] need to be 
extended to cover features such as how to access cloud services, how to manage and how to monitor the 
cloud services. 
6.2 introduction to cloud service brokerage 
a cloud service brokerage (csb) is a service between cscs and csps, in which the cloud service broker 
arbitrates, delivers and manages the cloud services from the csps to the cscs. the objectives of csb are to 
provide a single access, easily managed and value-added service to cscs from multiple csps.  
as shown in figure 6 -1, the csb premises the multiple cscs and csps environment. in csb, a csp registers 
cloud services to a cloud service broker and the cloud service broker configures a product catalogue with the 
registered cloud services. the cloud service broker also registers cloud services during the configuration of 
the product catalogue. three service models (see clause 6.3) are implemented depending on how the product 
catalogue is configured in cloud service brokerage.  
when, a csc requests a cloud service with csc's requirements to the cloud service broker, the cloud service 
broker searches for best-matched cloud services.  
once the csc agrees with the conditions (e.g. terms and price) of a cloud service by the cloud service broker, 
the cloud service broker makes a contract with the csc for brokering a cloud service. on behalf of the csc, 
the cloud service broker requests to launch a cloud service to the csps and the access information from the 
csps is delivered to the csc. using the access information, the csc accesses and utilizes the cloud service.  
during the use of the cloud service, the cloud service broker monitors and controls the cloud service on behalf 
of the csc. 
note – the more detailed overall behaviour of the cloud service brokerage with specific steps is described in table i.1 
and table i.9 of appendix i for a general use case and a use case for cloud service management, respectively.  
 
figure 6-1 – basic concept of cloud service brokerage  
in addition to the three activities of the cloud service broker of [itu -t y.3502], the cloud service brokerage 
needs new activities of the cloud service broker. these new activities are described below. 
– assist csc for accessing service : it includes acquiring access information for a cloud service from 
csps who provide the cloud service, and forwarding the access information to the csc who requests 
the cloud service to understand access and usage of the cloud se rvice. in order to assist a csc to 
access a cloud service, access information is transmitted securely. 

