framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   189 
appendix i 
 
comparison between functional requirements and other specifications 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
i.1 specifications and other sdos 
i.1.1 open compute project 
the open compute project (ocp) is a rapidly growing community of engineers around the world whose 
mission is to design and enable the delivery of the most efficient server, storage and data centre hardware 
designs available for scalable computing. 
the ocp server project provides standardized server system specifications for scale computing. 
standardization is key to ensure that the ocp specification pool does not get fragmented by point solutions 
that plague the industry today. the server project collaborates with the other ocp disciplines to ensure broad 
adoption and achieve optimizations throughout all aspects from validation, to manufacturing, deployments, 
data centre operations and de-commissioning. 
table i.1 lists ocp related specifications. 
table i.1 – ocp related specifications  
family specification summary published  
openrack v2 twin lakes 1s server 
design specification v1.00 
[b-ocp 1s] 
this specification describes the design of the twin 
lakes 1s server based on the intel xeon 
processor d-2191 system-on-a-chip (soc). 
2018 
facebook 2s server tioga 
pass specification v1.0 
[b-ocp 2s] 
this specification describes facebook dual sockets 
server intel motherboard v4.0 
(project name: tioga pass) design and design 
requirement to integrate tioga pass into 
open rack v2. 
2018 
big basin-jbog 
specification v1.0 
[b-ocp jbog] 
this document describes technical specifications 
for facebook's big basin-jbog for use in open 
rack v2. 
2018 
inspur server project san 
jose v1.01 [b-ocp sj] 
this document defines the technical specification 
for san jose motherboard and chassis used in 
open compute project open rack v2. 
2017 
facebook multi-node 
server platform: yosemite 
v2 design specification 
v1.0 [b-ocp yose] 
this specification describes the design of the 
yosemite v2 platform that hosts four one socket 
(1s) servers, or two sets of 1s server/device card 
pairs. 
2017 
facebook server intel 
motherboard v4.0 project 
tioga pass v0.30 
[b-ocp tp] 
this specification describes facebook dual sockets 
server intel motherboard v4.0 (project name: tioga 
pass) design and design requirement to integrate 
intel motherboard v4.0 into open rack v2. 
2017 
facebook server intel 
motherboard v3.1 
[b-ocp mb] 
this specification describes intel motherboard v3.0 
design and design requirement to integrate intel 
motherboard v3.0 into open rack v11 and open 
rack v2. 
2016 
open rack- intel 
motherboard hardware 
v2.0 [b-ocp imbh] 
this document defines the technical specifications 
for the intel motherboard used in open compute 
project servers. 
2016 
