cloud computing management 2 
 
  519 
9 naas service operational policy framework 
this clause aims to present the naas service operational policy framework which  consists of elements and 
functions provided by the csp and the corresponding procedure. 
9.1 elements of naas service operational policy 
naas service operational policy data models are operated from creation to execution in the naas service 
operational pol icy framework. the main elements of the naas service operational policy framework are 
described as follows. 
9.1.1 naas service operational policy administration point 
the naas service operational policy administration point (npap) is responsible for the creation, translation, 
and validation of new naas service operational policy data models, and the modification of existing ones, 
both during design time and runtime execution time. naas service operational policy data models are created 
with the integration of naas service data models. 
9.1.2 naas service operational policy decision point 
the naas service operational policy decision point (npdp) is responsible for the distribution and decisions of 
naas service operational policy data models. once the naas service operational policy data model is initially 
created or an existing one is modified, the npdp sends it from the repository to the naas service operational 
policy enforcement point  (npep) before it is actually needed. in this distributed manner, naas serv ice 
operational policy data models will be available when needed in order to minimize the latency for real-time 
requests or triggers to the npdp. in some required cases, naas service operational policy data models can be 
subscribed and automatically updated on the npep. 
9.1.3 naas service operational policy information point 
the naas se rvice operational policy information point (npip) is responsible for storing new naas service 
operational policy data models in the repository which ar e verified by the npap.  the existing ones can be 
retrieved in the repository. 
in the repository, naas ser vice operational policy data models are grouped by different dimensions, which 
include, but are not limited to, the corresponding naas service data model, the type or category, the lifecycle, 
the ownership or administrative domain, the geographic area or location, the technology type, the describing 
language and version, and the security level. 
9.1.4 naas service operational policy enforcement point 
the npep is responsible for  the enforcement of naas service operational policy data models  during the 
runtime execution time. 
9.2 functions of naas service operational policy 
table 9-1 provides descriptions of the main functions related to the naas service operational policy data 
model. 
 
  
