 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   281 
1 scope  
this recommendation describes the framework for interactions between multiple cloud service providers 
(csps), which is referred to as inter -cloud computing. based on use cases involving several csps and after 
considering different types of service offerings (given in the appendices), this recommendation describes the 
possible relationships among multiple csps, interactions between csps and relevant functional 
requirements. 
2 references 
the following itu-t recommendations and other references contain provisions which, through reference in 
this text, constitute provisions of this recommendation. at the time of publication, the editions indicated 
were valid. all recommendations and other references are subject to revision; users of this recommendation 
are therefore encouraged to investigate the possibility of applying the most recent edition of the 
recommendations and other references listed below. a list of the currently valid itu-t recommendations is 
regularly published. the reference to a document within this recommendation does not give it, as a stand -
alone document, the status of a recommendation. 
[itu-t x.1601]  recommendation itu-t x.1601 (2014), security framework for cloud computing. 
[itu-t y.3501]  recommendation itu-t y.3501 (2013), cloud computing framework and high-level 
requirements. 
[itu-t y.3520]  recommendation itu-t y.3520 (2013), cloud computing framework for end to end 
resource management. 
3 definitions 
3.1 terms defined elsewhere 
this recommendation uses the following terms defined elsewhere: 
3.1.1 cloud service customer [itu-t y.3501]: a person or organization that consumes delivered cloud 
services within a contract with a cloud service provider. 
3.1.2 cloud service provider  [itu-t y.3501 ]: an organization that provides and maintains delivered 
cloud services. 
3.1.3 resource management [itu-t y.3520]: a way to access, control, manage, deploy, schedule and bind 
resources when they are provided by service providers and requested by customers. 
3.1.4 service level agreement  [b-iso/iec 20000-1:2011]: documented agreement between the service 
provider and customer that identifies services and service targets  
note 1 – a service level agreement can also be established between the service provider and a supplier, an internal 
group or a customer acting as a supplier. 
note 2 – a service level agreement can be included in a contract or another type of documented agreement.  
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation 
this recommendation defines the following terms: 
3.2.1 inter-cloud computing: the paradigm for enabling the interworking between two or mor e cloud 
service providers.  
note – inter-cloud computing is also referred as inter-cloud. 
3.2.2 primary cloud service provider: in inter-cloud computing, a cloud service provider which is making 
use of cloud services of peer cloud service providers (i.e., secondary cloud service providers) as part of its 
own cloud services. 
