7 security  
 
996 
 
figure 7-1 – use cases of two types of monitoring data 
necessary monitoring data is mainly used by csps, but could also be used by cscs. for example, monitoring 
data of cloud physical resources is mainly used by csps to maintain the stability of the cloud platform, but 
could also be used by cscs if the cloud -related physical resources were provide d to the customers as a 
service. 
optional monitoring data is provided as the request of cscs and also mainly used by cscs. csps could also 
use optional monitoring data to maintain slas. for example, cscs could require the cscs' data associated 
with the monitoring of their own applications in the cloud. this data is provided by csp, and used to better 
manage their applications in the cloud. for example, a csp could use database as a service (dbaas) 
monitoring data to maintain the security and stability of database resources and service in cloud. 
the relationship of these two types of monitoring data is illustrated in figure 7-1. 
8 monitoring data lifecycle in cloud computing 
this clause describes the lifecycle of monitoring data in cloud computing and clarifies the main differences 
between it and lifecycle of other data in cloud computing. 
8.1 monitoring data collection 
monitoring data collection results from the acquisition of monitoring data and the transmission of that data 
to a storage server. most monitoring data is created by the use of the cloud service by the csc. necessary 
monitoring data can also be created by other cloud service monitoring activities. 
8.2 monitoring data storage 
after creating a monitoring data collection, cloud monitoring data can be stored in the csc cloud resources 
locally, or in monitoring data storage servers of the csp. 
8.3 monitoring data use 
monitoring data can be used to maintain the performance and security of the cloud platform and the cloud 
service by the csp; it can also be used to maintain cloud resources performance and security by cscs. 
8.4 monitoring data migration 
when cloud resources are migrated, monitoring data can migrate along with the cloud resources. 

