2 cloud computing management  
 
442  
10.4.1  resource fulfilment functionalities 
this covers a set of functionalities for the fulfilment management of resources for the support of cloud 
services. this functionality includes resource order management. 
10.4.1.1  resource order management 
this set of functionalities manages the e2e lifecycle of a resource order request. this includes validating 
resource availability as well as the resource order request. 
note – resource order management functionality will typically communicate with service order management and 
resource layer functionalities. notifications can be issued to the service order management functionalities during the 
resource order orch estration proces s (especially upon completion). such notification can trigger other steps in the 
service order management functionalities (e.g., resource order completion). 
resource order management functionalities include: 
1) resource order orchestration and distribution. this functionality provides workflow and 
orchestration capability across resource order management. this functionality has the ability to 
distribute the resource order. it also provides functionality to track and manage the overall resource 
order as well as to track the overall order; 
2) resource order validation. this functionality validates the resource order request based on contract, 
catalogue, and provisioning rules; 
3) resource order tracking and lifecycle management.  this functional ity issues valid and complete 
resource orders, and stores the order into an appropriate repository; 
4) resource assign. this functionality addresses resource configurations which are needed to support 
a service order. 
10.4.2 resource assurance functionalities 
this set of functionalities covers the assurance management of resources in support of cloud services. these 
functionalities include resource performance management, resource fault management and resource test 
management. the role of particular functionalities is described below. 
10.4.2.1  resource performance management 
this set of functionalities monitors, analyses, and reports on the performance of the csp resources. this 
includes the following functionalities: 
1) resource performance monitoring. thi s fu nctionality supports data collection and performance 
monitoring of the csp resources; 
2) resource performance analysing. this functionality analyses the performance of the various csp 
resources; 
3) resource performance management reporting. this functi onality generates reports about the 
performance of the csp resources. 
10.4.2.2 resource fault management 
this set of functionalities is responsible for the management of faults associated with the resources of csp. 
this includes the following functionalities: 
1) resource fault monitoring. this functionality collects and monitors the operational status of the 
resource layer; 
2) resource fault analysis. this functionality relates and analyses the various fault events in the 
resource layer; 
3) resource fault c orrection and restoration. this functionality is responsible for repairing or 
replacement of faulty resources; 
4) resource fault reporting. this functionality provides reports about the various faults within the 
resource layer. 
