1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
76  
8.4.2.8 set up legal agreement  
the set up legal agreement activity concerns the service agreement between the cloud service customer 
and the chosen cloud service provider(s). this involves negotiating the service agreement between the cloud 
service customer and the chosen cloud service provider(s), aiming to meet the customer's needs. 
8.5 cross-cutting aspects 
8.5.1 general 
cross-cutting aspects include both architectural and operational considerations. cross-cutting aspects apply 
to multiple elements within the description of the ccra or in connection with its operation as an instantiated 
system. these cross-cutting aspects are shared issues across the roles, activities and functional components. 
for example, security is a cross -cutting aspect because it applies to infrastructure, services, cloud service 
providers, cloud service customers  and cloud service partners  (cloud auditors, cloud service developers 
etc.). all of these need to be secured, but how they are secured is different based on what is being secured. 
so, securing infrastructure and infrastructure services is very different from securing software services.  
some cross -cutting aspects can apply to other cross -cutting aspects, for example, governance applies to 
functional elements as well as to the cross-cutting aspects of performance and security. 
cross-cutting aspects often affect the cloud computing activities performed by roles. roles can coordinate 
supporting a cross -cutting aspect amongst themselves and their cloud computi ng activities . supporting 
cross-cutting aspects also needs functional components to provide support for cloud computing activities, 
technical capabilities and implementations. 
for each cross-cutting aspect, a set of cloud computing activities and functional components are defined to 
support them. different roles and solutions can use different subsets of these. 
cross-cutting aspects include: 
• auditability (clause 8.5.2); 
• availability (clause 8.5.3); 
• governance (clause 8.5.4); 
• interoperability (clause 8.5.5); 
• maintenance and versioning (clause 8.5.6); 
• performance (clause 8.5.7); 
• portability (clause 8.5.8); 
• protection of personally identifiable information (clause 8.5.9); 
• regulatory; 
• resiliency (clause 8.5.10); 
• reversibility (clause 8.5.11); 
• security (clause 8.5.12); 
• service levels and service level agreement (clause 8.5.13). 
8.5.2 auditability 
auditability is the capability of collecting and making available necessary evidential information related to 
the operation and use of a cloud service, for the purpose of conducting an audit. related to the governance 
of cloud services  is the assurance that those services are provided and used in consistency with the 
associated service agreements between the cloud service customers, cloud se rvice providers and cloud 
service partners. this assurance is most often achieved by means of independent audits of services. an audit 
typically consists of an audit report or audit certification made available to the parties of the associated 
service agreements: the cloud service customers, the cloud service providers and the cloud service partners. 
