2 cloud computing management  
 
438  
10.2.2.1 product problem management 
this set of functionalities is responsible for handling product-affecting csc problems as well as csp services 
problems. these functionalities analyse and resolve product problems in an efficient manner, tracking these 
problems and reporting them. 
10.2.2.2  product performance management 
product performance management includes the activities and tools that gather and analyse data regarding 
the efficiency of the product strategy, propositions and products based upon their performance  in the 
marketplace. 
this set of functionalities is responsible for monitoring, analysing and reporting on product performance. this 
includes the following functionalities: 
1) performance monitoring. this functionality collects and monitors product performance data based 
upon parameters; 
2) performance analysis. this functionality is responsible for the analysis and evaluation of products ' 
performance (analysing data received from product performance monitoring). examples of 
performance analysis include tra cking the perform ance of a product based on its performance in 
the marketplace with regard to campaigns or product capacity analysis; 
3) performance reporting. this functionality creates product performance reports (such as product 
revenue reporting or cost reporting) on a periodic basis or on-demand. 
10.2.2.3 product quality management 
this set of functionalities is responsible for monitoring and managing the quality of products. they allow 
collect and compare quality related measurements against established products. 
this includes the following functionalities: 
1) product quality modelling. this functionality establishes what will be monitored and how it will be 
monitored in terms of product quality; 
2) product quality monitoring. this functionality collects and monitors product quality as determined 
by the established product quality model; 
3) product quality analysing. this functionality analyses and evaluates the quality of products being 
offered by the csp; 
4) product quality reporting. this functionality generates various reports on product quality and makes 
them available on a periodic basis or on-demand. 
10.2.2.4 product test management 
this set of functionalities allows a csp to test the quality of products. these functionalities collect and 
compare quality and perfo rmance related indicators. the results can be optionally available to interested 
parties. 
10.2.3 product repositories functionalities 
this set includes functionalities for product catalogue management and product inventory management. the 
role of particular functionalities is described hereafter. 
10.2.3.1  product catalogue management 
this set of  functionalities allows the csp to list and manage available products and their associated 
characteristics such as: product offering characteristics, product offering effective duration, product offering 
description. 
10.2.3.2 product inventory management 
this set of functionalities allows the csp to maintain information about already deployed and provided cloud 
products. it may also store and manage service relationships: the mapping to other services and/or service 
components. 
