 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   353 
iec international engineering consortium 
iot internet of things 
iso international organization for standardization 
json java script object notation 
jtc 1 joint technical committee 1 
kvdb key-value database application interface 
ldp linked data platform 
m2m machine to machine 
mqtt message queuing telemetry transport 
pmml predictive model markup language 
rdf resource description framework 
sc subcommittee 
sdn software-defined networking 
sdo standards development organization 
sg study group 
tc technical committee 
url uniform resource locator 
w3c world wide web consortium 
wg working group 
xmile xml interchange language 
xml extensible markup language 
5 conventions 
none. 
6 landscape of big data from an itu-t perspective 
6.1 characteristics and general concepts of big data 
[itu-t y.3600] describes the characteristics and general concepts of the big data ecosystem. 
with the rapid development of information and communications technology (ict), internet technologies and 
services, huge amount of data are generated, transmitted and stored with explosive growth. data are 
generated by many sources and not only sensors, cameras, network devices, web pages, email systems, social 
networks and many other sources.  datasets are becoming so large and complex or are arriving so fast that 
traditional data processing methods and tools are inadequate. efficient analytics of data within tolerable 
elapsed times becomes very challenging. the paradigm being developed to resolve the above issues are 
called big data [itu-t y.3600]. 
within big data ecosystem, data types include structured, semi-structured and unstructured data. structured 
data are often stored in databases which may be organized in different models, such as relational model, 
document model, key-value model, graph model etc. semi -structured data does not conform to the formal 
structure of data models, but contain tags or markers to identify data. unstructured data do not have a pre-
defined data model and are not organized in any defined ma nner. within all data types data can exist in 
formats, such as text, spreadsheet, video, audio, image, map, etc. [itu-t y .3600]. 
