intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  901 
table ii.22 – test case: network policy migration 
network policy migration test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc migrates the vm while the network policy (generally includes 
access control list, bandwidth limitation and priority policy) is consistent before and after 
vm migration. 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.3.1 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc configures the network policy for vm a, including 
configuring the access control list, bandwidth limitation and 
priority policy for vm a.  
 
2 stimulus the csc migrates vm a to another host.  
3 check the access control list configuration of vm a is consistent 
with the original configuration before migration. 
 
4 check the bandwidth limitation configuration of vm a is consistent 
with the original configuration before migration. 
 
5 check the priority policy configuration of vm a is consistent with 
original the configuration before migration. 
 
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
ii.3.2 test case: network qos 
table ii.23 shows the test case for network qos. 
table ii.23 – test case: network qos 
network qos test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc configures network qos for the vm, including bandwidth 
limitation, bandwidth reservation, traffic shaping, traffic classification and congestion 
avoidance. 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.3.2 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc configures the bandwidth limitation for the 
interworking between two vms.  
 
2 check network throughput between the two vms does not exceed 
the bandwidth specified in step 1. 
 
3 stimulus the csc configures bandwidth reservation for the 
interworking between two vms. 
 
4 check network throughput between the two vms is not less than 
the reserved bandwidth specified in step 3.  
 
5 stimulus the csc configures traffic shaping for the specified interface 
of vm a. 
 
6 check the traffic of a specified interface of vm a is sent at a more 
stable rate with lower jitter than before. 
 
7 stimulus the csc configures traffic classification for the specified 
interface of vm a. 
 
8 check the traffic of a specified interface of vm a is automatically 
categorized into a number of traffic classes. 
 
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
