3 xaas  
 
684  
there is a need to guarantee the availability, confidentiality and integrity of the logging records held by the 
ns monitoring and reporting functional component. for multi-tenant cloud services, there is also a need to 
design access to the records so that particular t enants can only gain access to information about their own 
tenancy and about no other tenancy. 
8.3.2.4 ns policy management 
the ns policy management functional component provides capabilities to define, store and retrieve policies 
that apply to network ser vices. policies can include business, technical, security, privacy and certification 
policies that apply to network services and their usage by naas cscs. 
some policies can be general and apply to a network service irrespective of the customer concerned. o ther 
policies can be specific to a particular customer. 
8.3.2.5 ns automation 
the ns automation functional compo nent provides capabilities for network service delivery including the 
management and execution of network service templates and the orchestration of network services. the ns 
automation functional component holds the network service templates which define t he cloud computing 
activities and workflows required to provision and deliver a specific entry in the ns catalogue. 
network service provisioning can be automated in order to support scalable resource operations, including 
configuration and charging. 
network service administration activities of naas csc can be capable of being automated and need not 
require any intervention by naas csp. 
the ns automation functional component works with the ns provisioning functional component and the 
service integration functional component to achieve its goals. 
8.3.2.6 ns level management 
the ns level management functional component provides capabilities for ma naging the service levels of a 
particular network service, aiming to ensure that the network service meets the requi rements of the sla 
which applies to the network service. 
the ns level management functional component manages the capacity and performance r elating to a 
network service. this can involve the application of network service policies (e.g., a placement rule w hich 
aims to avoid single points of failure). 
the ns level management functional component obtains monitoring information from the ns  monitoring 
and reporting functional component in order to measure and record key performance indicators (kpis) for 
the network service. capacity of network service is allocated or de-allocated based on the basis of these kpis. 
the ns level management functional component also keeps track of the overall state of allocated and 
available resources. the comparison of allocated ca pacity against network service  performance kpis  can 
assist in the identification of current or potential bottlenecks, in support of capacity planning. 
8.3.2.7 ns incident and problem management 
the ns incident and problem management functional component pr ovides capabilities for the capture of 
network service incident or problem reports and managing those reports through to resolution. 
network service incidents and problems can be detected and reported by the naas csp's systems, or they 
can be detected and reported by naas cscs. 
8.3.2.8 ns inventory 
the ns inventory functional component holds information of all network service instances. this information 
is updated during the lifecycle of the network service instances, reflecting changes resulting from execution 
of management operations on these network service instances. 
