 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   163 
table i.8 – a use case for sla establishment in cloud service brokerage 
figure 
 
 
pre-conditions 
(optional) 
the csp is a member of the csn: cloud service broker and has an account for accessing csb 
workspace. 
the csc is a member of the csn: cloud service broker and has an account for accessing csb 
workspace. 
the csp registered cloud service information including service level in csb workspace.  
post-conditions 
(optional) 
the csn: cloud service broker makes a request for provisioning of a service, which complies 
with the contracted sla, to a csp. 
the csn: cloud service broker monitors status of the brokered service to comply with sla.  
derived 
requirements 
– service level objectives selection (see clause 7.3) 
– sla document management (see clause 7.3)  
– sla description model (see clause 7.3) 
 
table i.9 – a use case for cloud service management in csb 
title a use case for cloud service management in csb. 
description this use case describes providing a cloud service to a csc and a service management during 
the service period. 
(1) on behalf of the csc, the csn: cloud service broker requests to create a service to the 
csp that can accommodate the service requirements. 
(2) the requested csp creates a service according to the service requirements.  
(3) the csp informs on a creation of the service and provides information for accessing 
the service such as service access point, id and password to the csn: cloud service 
broker. 
(4) the csn: cloud service broker forwards the access information to the authorized csc.  
(5) using the access information, the csc accesses and utilizes the created service. 
(6) during the service period, the csn: cloud service broker manages sla.  
  a. the csn: cloud service broker periodically monitors the service about service level 
(e.g., availability should be higher than 99.98%) described in the sla established 
between the csn: cloud service broker and the csc. 
  b. when the csn: cloud service broker detects service level is lower than the agreed 
service level (e.g., measured availability becomes lower than 99.98%), the csn: 
cloud service broker notifies the failure to meet the sla to the csc. also, according 

