1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
236  
table 6-1 – distributed cloud configuration model 
model description 
model 2 
(edge – core) 
 
model 2 is a shape of a distributed cloud in which the edge cloud and the core 
cloud are configured together. a cloud service is functionally reconfigured and is 
executed on both edge and core clouds by interworking. 
the edge cloud is configured for real-time service delivery. the edge cloud assists 
end devices by offloading cloud services or caching the data of cloud services. 
model 3 
(edge – regional – core) 
 
model 3 is a shape of a distributed cloud in which edge, regional and core clouds 
are configured together. a cloud service is reconfigured and deployed to edge, 
regional and core clouds and is executed by interworking. 
this model is a combination of model 1 and model 2. this model provides cloud 
services efficiently by mitigating the traffic of the cloud service, caching data of the 
cloud service and by offloading cloud services for the csc's end devices. 
6.4 deployment considerations of distributed cloud 
this clause provides consideration aspects for the deployment of cloud services on a distributed cloud. these 
consideration aspects include: 
– infrastructure considerations of distributed cloud; 
– network considerations of distributed cloud; 
– service considerations of distributed cloud; 
– management considerations of distributed cloud; and 
– security considerations of distributed cloud. 
6.4.1 infrastructure considerations of distributed cloud 
infrastructure in a distributed cloud is heterogeneous and geographically distributed. thus, consideration 
aspects are as follows: 
– variety of physical resources, which have different hardware structure and instruction, for pooling 
the resources and deploying cloud services execution efficiently; 
– energy efficient resources and power consumption control for edge cloud with small resource 
capacity; and 
– infrastructure automatic provision, configuration and updating, as well as monitoring functionalities 
for providing a single system view to cscs. 
6.4.2 network considerations of distributed cloud 
the network in a distributed cloud supports connecting distributed cloud resources in broad areas among 
core, regional and edge clouds and is aware of cloud service. thus, network considerations are as follows: 
– broad network connectivity of distributed cloud resources among edge, regional and core clouds for 
managing resources and providing cloud service efficiently; and 
– deployment of virtual network functions to edge cloud f or controlling network on -demand and 
being aware context of cloud service. 

