cloud computing management 2 
 
  483 
y.3520(13)_f03
management
system(s)
application
cloud
virtualized
resources
network
virtualized
resources
cloud
provider
resource view
service orders and provisioning
trouble tickets/fm/pm/qos/sla
charging/billing/settlement
cloud service
provider
management
system(s)
application
network
logical
resources
network
physical
resources
csp
resource view
inter-service provider
b2b interfaces
app a app b
crm
telco
service
provider
(csp)
customer
dashboard
app c = a + b
(composed service)
service/resource
delivery path
service/resource
management path(s)
 
figure 3 – end to end management expectations in a multi-cloud scenario 
similar to the case of a single cloud scenario, service and resource management interfaces need to be able 
to manage the relevant underlying resources in a coordinated manner that is effectively transparent to the 
external systems that are interacting with those management interfaces.  
figure 3 depicts a management system architecture providing the needed management interfaces (again, 
the interfaces themselves are not at issue, as each implementation may have fine -tuned its own). the best 
practices should p rovide the flexibility for the cloud application itself to expose its service or resource 
management interfaces. in addition, they need to enable a  management system to expose one or more of 
the interfaces so that the management system is tracking the dyna mic changes in the underlying resources 
allocated to support the cloud application being managed.  
the framework permits each csp, as well as the csc, to have accurate knowledge regarding the actual status 
of services via metrics retrieved from the underlying relevant resources across a multi-cloud environment. in 
other words, all three dashboards depicted in figure 3 need to accurately display the s tatus of the services. 
in addition, the framework should consider a comprehensive service lifecycle management process from the 
point of view of csps and cscs, i.e., the stages needed from the time the csc makes a request until the csp 
receives compensation.  
7 requirements for the resource management involving multi-cloud service providers 
7.1 high-level architecture for end to end multi-cloud resource management 
figure 4 shows a high-level architecture for end to end multi-cloud resource management. this architecture 
depicts the virtual machines containing a software stack consisting of middleware layers contain ing 
application servers hosted by the runtime environment of choice, on top of which cloud applications execute. 
figure 4 also shows both functional interfaces (fis) and service management interfaces (smis) being exposed 
by various cloud applications running on multiple cloud data centres. the information can be consumed from 
various smis that are exported by multiple applications executing in multiple cloud data centres, allowing for 
a comprehensive end to end multi-cloud resource management and monitoring system to be realized. 
