1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
292  
y .3511(14)_f8-8
cloud service customers
csc 1 csc 2 csc 3
catalogue of
service offerings
catalogue of
service offerings
primary
cloud
service
provider
secondary
cloud service
provider
 
figure 8-8 – services provided from a secondary csp to a primary csp  
the primary csp may offer services from multiple secondary csps. some of the services offered by the 
secondary csps may themselves be their own services or services from other csps. note that t he roles of 
primary and secondary service providers may change depending on the service under consideration. 
the primary csp serving the csc provides the service level agreement (sla) to the csc and is responsible for 
ensuring that both services hosted by that primary csp and services offered from a secondary csp will meet 
the sla between the csc and the primary csp. 
8.3.3 network connectivity 
in considering network connectivity for the inter-cloud intermediary pattern, multiple levels of connectivity 
may be required. 
in the simplest case, the csp providing services to the csc (the primary csp) is hosting all of the services and 
is providing the network connectivity to the csc. in this case, the csp can offer an sla covering both the 
cloud and network services. 
in a more common case, the csp providing services to the csc (the primary csp) will offer some of the hosted 
services but will also be offering services from one or more secondary csps. the network connectivity 
between the primary and the secondary csps may be offered as one of the primary csp's services or it may 
be provided by a distinct third party network provider. 
as illustrated by figure 8 -9, the primary csp is responsible for ensuring that the sla between the primary 
csp and the csc is met taking into account: 
1) the network connectivity between the primary csp and the csc; 
2) the services from the primary csp; 
3) the network connectivity between the primary csp and the involved secondary csps; 
4) the services from the secondary csps. 
