1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
148  
6.4 configuration of cloud service brokerage 
figure 6-5 shows logical components of csb. the logical components consist of workspace, product catalogue 
management, contract management, service access management and service management. 
 
figure 6-5 – configuration of cloud service brokerage  
note – relationship between the logical components and the activities of the cloud service broker for csb is described 
in appendix ii. 
6.4.1 workspace 
a workspace logical component manages user accounts in csb a nd provides user interfaces for csps and 
cscs. this logical component handles authentication of users (i.e., csps and cscs) and grants authorization 
for them to access other logical components in csb. csps and cscs perform requests and responses for all 
their operations through the user interfaces provided by this logical component. 
note 1 – csp's operations include registering and deregistering cloud service. csc's operations include delivering cloud 
service requirements, requesting a cloud service launchi ng, checking status of launched cloud services and paying for 
the usage cost.  
note 2 – since there are csps who provide cloud services and cscs who use the cloud services, a market trading cloud 
services is formed in a csb. whereas marketplace mentioned in [itu-t y.3502] is not a logical component of csb, a csb 
itself becomes a marketplace in that csps provide cloud services and cscs use cloud services in the csp through csb 
and the workspace is used as a user interface of marketplace. a csp registers cloud services to a product catalogue and 
a csc use csp's cloud service by using workspace. 
6.4.2 product catalogue management 
a product catalogue management logical component provides registering, deregistering and searching cloud 
services within a product catalogue in csb to select cloud service by cscs. cloud services from multiple csps 
through workspace are registered and deregistered in the product catalogue.  this logical component 
performs supporting the three service models of csb described in clause 6.3  by managing registration into 
the product catalogue. 
note – to support service models of csb, this logical component performs (i) aggregation of cloud services by 
registering original cloud services from multiple csps into the product catalogue, (ii) inte gration of cloud services by 
registering a new integrated cloud service that consists of multiple cloud services into the product catalogue and (iii) 
customization of cloud services by registering a new customized cloud service into the product catalogue to comply with 
csc's requirements. 
this logical component also provides searching for the best matched cloud service. 
6.4.3 contract management 
a contract management logical component manages contracts between csps and cscs in terms of cloud sla. 
note – cloud sla includes entire agreements regarding contracts such as specification of cloud services, service level 
in terms of quality, price of cloud service, remedies for failures to meet the terms of the sla and so on.  

