xaas 3 
 
     681 
 
figure 8-3 – oss-naas functional components 
the oss-naas functional components include the following oss functional components: 
1) service catalogue functional component (see clause 9.2.5.3 of [itu -t y.3502]) . this component 
includes a listing of all cloud services of naas csps including the relevant naas services; 
 
 modelling is needed for ensuring an efficient control and management of the naas services, policies, 
and resources by the naas csp. the following models used for naas servi ce instantiation 
(see clause 7.2.2) are needed in the service catalogue: 
– naas service models 
 a naas service model provides the information model of a given naas service (e.g. , vpn as a 
service (vpnaas)) being offered by the naas csp. naas service models are used for creating and 
deploying naas service solutions by  the naas csp. in a naas service model, a naas service 
specification is needed which includes the various interfaces related to the operations offered 
by a naas service. the naas service model i s used when instantiating the corresponding naas 
service. for example, in case of a vpn service instance the different service attributes used to 
model a vpn service, such as tenant id, vpn site ids, vpn type and access bandwidth are part 
of the naas servi ce model and will be subsequently used by the naas csc when tr iggering 
vpn-related service requests. 
– naas service operational policy models 
 a naas service operational policy model provides the information model related to network 
operational policies for a given naas service. the operational policies can be created at different 
levels of abstraction and can represent different types of policy rules for controlling  naas 
resources managed by the naas csp. the operational policies are used to control the 
configuration changes of naas resources (e.g., network elements). 
 for a given naas service, the corresponding naas service model and naas service operational 
policy model always work together although loosely bound to each other. the creation, 
deletion, and any major state changes of a specific naas service instance (instantiated based on 
the corresponding naas service model selected by the naas csc) usually trigger the execution 
of one specific naas service operational policy model, which is used together w ith the naas 
service model during the whole lifecycle of the naas service. 
– naas resource models 
 a naas resource model reflects , in an abstract manner , naas csp's resources including their 
associated topological view across different layers. a naas resou rce model reflects the 
attributes and operational pa rameters of given naas resources (e.g. , ns, nf, virtualized 

