7 security  
 
976 
while lock-in is a business issue, it is not in itself a security threat . however, it can sometimes give rise to 
security concerns. for example, if the csn who supplies a key component goes out of business, it may be that 
no further security patches are available. where vulnerability in the component emerge s, it may be very 
difficult or expensive to mitigate the risk. 
8.2.9 supply chain vulnerability 
a csp is at risk if hardware or software delivered to the platform through their supply chain undermines csc 
or csp security, for example, the accidental or deliberate introduction of malware or exploitable 
vulnerabilities. 
a case in point would be bad software from the csn. this security challenge exists for csn software running 
in the csp, such as customer facing, a virtual machine (vm) guest operating  system (os), applications, 
platform components, or audit/monitoring software (e.g., for a partner providing a service audit). 
another example is wh en a csp is running software provided by a partner;  the csp is at risk if the partner 
fails to provide the necessary security updates in a timely manner. 
8.2.10 software dependencies 
when vulnerability is detected, it may not be possible to apply updates immediately because doing so would 
break other software components (though those components may not otherwise require updating). this is 
particularly true if the dependency exists between components provided by one or more csns, rather than 
the csps themselves. 
8.3 security challenges for cloud service partners (csns) 
this clause considers challenges that directly affect csns. such challenges might affect the ability of a csn to 
do business, to get paid, to protect their intellectual property, and to avoid l egal or regulatory difficulties. 
security challenges  to a given csn will depend on their specific business and environments, such a s 
development, integration, audit, or otherwise. 
8.3.1 ambiguity in responsibility 
where there is a mix of csp and csn software running in the service, it may not be apparent to the csc where 
the responsibility for mitigation and handling of security incidents resides. it may be quite difficult to 
determine the responsible entity by technical analysis. this could result in mutua l finger-pointing between 
the csp and csn(s) as to who is at fault, which could result in further breaches if the root cause is not found. 
8.3.2 misappropriation of intellectual property 
when partners submit software or other assets to the csp for execution, the security challenge exists that 
this material could be leaked to third parties or misappropriated for unauthorized use. this could include a 
violation of copyright or the exposure of trade secrets. 
8.3.3 loss of software integrity 
once the partner's software is running in  the csp, there is a possibility of the software being modified or 
infected while it is out of the direct control of  the csn, thus causing their software to misbehave in some 
way. although this possibility exists outside the csn's control, it could seriously affect their reputation and 
thus their business. 
9 cloud computing security capabilities 
this recommendation identifies the following  security capabilities  against identified cloud computing 
security threats and challenges. parameters related with these security capabilities may be stipulated in the 
security service level agreement (sla), for example, an incident response time. 
