5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
820  
3.1.7 peer cloud service [itu-t y.3502]: a cloud service of one cloud service provider which is used as part 
of a cloud service of one or more other cloud service providers. 
3.1.8 peer cloud service provider [itu-t y.3502]: a cloud service provider who provides one or more cloud 
services for use by one or more other cloud service providers as part of their cloud services. 
3.1.9 primary cloud service provider [itu-t y.3511]: in inter-cloud computing, a cloud service provider 
which is making use of cloud services of peer cloud service providers (i.e., secondary cloud service providers) 
as part of its own cloud services. 
3.1.10 role [itu-t y.3502]: a set of activities that serves a common purpose. 
3.1.11 secondary cloud service provider [itu-t y.3511]: in inter-cloud computing, a cloud service provider 
which provides cloud services to a primary cloud service provider.  
note – the primary cloud service provider can use the services of secondary cloud service providers as part of its 
services offered to cloud service customers. 
3.1.12 sub-role [itu-t y.3502]: a subset of the activities of a given role. 
3.2 terms defined in this recommendation 
none. 
4 abbreviations and acronyms 
this recommendation uses the following abbreviations and acronyms: 
api application programming interface 
bss business support system 
csc cloud service customer 
csp cloud service provider 
csu cloud service user 
kpi key performance indicator 
oss operations support system 
qos quality of service 
sla service level agreement 
5 conventions 
none. 
6 overview 
6.1 inter-cloud functional architecture with different patterns  
inter-cloud computing describes the interworking of cloud service providers (csps) in order to deliver cloud 
services to cloud service customers  (cscs) and cloud service users  (csus) [itu-t y.3511]. one important 
target of inter -cloud computing for csps is to take benefit of the inter -cloud relationships established 
between peer csps (through inter-cloud patterns) in order to satisfy cloud service requirements of cscs. the 
csp who provides services for cscs plays the role of primary csp. the primary csp is responsible for the cloud 
service level agreement (sla) and interacts with peer csp(s) within an inter-cloud relationship. 
an inter-cloud relationship is bidirectional. as illustrated on figure 6 -1, csp a plays a role of primary  csp 
when using the services of csp b for providing services to its own customers, csc a1 and csc a2 (highlighted 
by black coloured arrows). csp a plays the role of secondary csp when providing services to csp b, who plays 
the role of primary csp and provides services to its own customers, csc b1 and csc b2 (highlighted by gre y 
coloured arrows). 
