xaas 3 
 
     689 
figure 8-7 shows the oss-nc functional components. 
 
figure 8-7 – oss-nc functional components 
8.3.5.1 nc application catalogue 
the nc catalogue functional component provides a listing of all nc applicat ions supported by the oss -nc. 
a nc catalogue can contain and/or reference all relevant technical information required to deploy, provision 
and run a nc application. 
8.3.5.2 nc application provisioning 
the nc provisioning functional component provides the capabilities for provisioning nc applications, both in 
terms of the provisioning of nc application implementations and of access endpoints and the workflow 
required to ensure that elements are provisioned in the correct sequence. 
8.3.5.3 nc automation 
the nc automation functional component provides capabi lities for the delivery of network connectivity 
applications and the orchestration of network connectivity across one or multiple naas csp connectivity 
domains. this includes orchestrating the allocation, release, upgrade of network connectivity through th e 
relevant naas csp connectivity domains. 
8.3.5.4 nc monitoring and reporting 
the nc monitoring and reporting functional component provides capabilities for: 
– providing reports on the behaviour of the naas csp's nc applications, which can take the form of  
alerts for behaviour which has a time -sensitive aspect (e.g., the occurrence of a fault on a given 
established nc, the completion of a task), or it can take the form of aggregated forms of historical 
data (e.g., nc usage data). 
– storage and retrieval of nc related monitoring and event data as logging records. 
there is a need to guarantee the availability, confidentiality and integrity of the logging records held by the 
nc monitoring and reporting functional component. 
8.3.5.5 nc policy management 
the nc management f unctional component provides capabilities to define, store and retrieve policies that 
apply to nc applications. policies can include technical and security policies that apply to nc applications and 
their usage by users of these nc applications. 
8.3.5.6 nc service level management 
the nc service level management functional component provides capabilities for managing the service levels 
of nc, aiming to ensure that the negotiated nc service level requirements are met. 

