xaas 3 
 
  563 
table iii.2 – customer service call centre 
legend use case 
use case title customer service call centre  
use case 
description 
virtual desktop pool supports distributed deployment model and can be deployed in the cloud 
computing infrastructure as a service (iaas) resource pool with the dynamic stretching of 
resources. 
by adopting cloud computing technology (virtualization, distributed computing and storage, 
cluster, etc.) to consolidate queuing resource and desktop resources, unified phone call 
dispatching and delivery and maintenance of the desktop can be achieved in an intensive way.  
high-level figure 
describing the use 
case  
 
derived 
requirements  
 
– unified management interface 
– automated scriptable management interface 
– diversity of daas client 
 
table iii.3 – scenario of daas user 
legend use case 
use case title scenario of daas user 
use case 
description 
scenario of daas user is driven by a specific class of user. common user types that benefit 
from daas are mobile workers, task workers (such as factory floor and call centre workers), 
contractor/offshore workers, and remote workers in branch offices.  
• mobile workers: if an organization needs to support employees who are mobile, work from 
home or work from the road, a daas solution can enable employee p roductivity anywhere 
and increase effective user collaboration without compromising security. daas can offer 
secure access to desktops and applications over low-bandwidth connections without 
requiring new applications to be distributed to daas users. emplo yees will see a consistent 
set of applications and can access their own data regardless of location. if employees need 
access to a comprehensive desktop experience, they can be assigned a personal virtual 
desktop within the confines of the corporate data centre. this improves the daas offering 
available to users while keeping the environment securely managed. with the wide 
adoption of third-generation (3g) wireless networks, users are even more capable of 
experiencing a full-fidelity desktop remotely.  

