1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
96  
two sub-roles of cloud service partner are involved in this case, cloud service developer and cloud auditor. 
the cloud service developer develops the implementation of the cloud services using the development tools 
functional component and tests the service using the test management functional component. the cloud 
service is then packaged with deployment information and given to the csp:cloud service manager to 
perform the deploy and provision services activity resulting in a service capabilities functional component 
being offered in the provide services activity. the cloud auditor, in the meantime, performs the perform 
audit and repo rt audit results activities on the cloud service developer, cloud service provider  or cloud 
service customer according to the policies and governance regimens of each. 
after the csp:cloud service manager performs the deploy and provision services activity, the provide services 
activity uses the service capabilities functional component, which is the implementation of the service and 
which in turn uses the resource layer functional components  for the compute, storage and network 
resources required to run the  service. the provide services activity also involves integrating the service 
capabilities functional component with the security systems functional component to provide security and 
protection of personally identifiable information  capabilities such as da ta encryption. the operational 
support systems functional component supports management, monitoring, automation and configuration 
for the services and resources. in addition, the csp:cloud service manager performs the perform service level 
management activity. the perform service level management activity manages the availability and 
performance of the cloud service so that it meets the objectives defined in the sla which applies to the cloud 
service. the service level management functional component , the m onitoring and reporting functional 
component, and the incident and problem management functional component are used to accomplish this. 
sometimes, csp:cloud service managers provide the service in collaboration with another csp:cloud service 
manager, invoking cloud services in that peer cloud service provider. the csp:cloud service manager then 
performs the manage peer cloud services activity to set up the contracts and slas for using the peer cloud 
service. the peer cloud service provider also offers administrative and use cloud computing activities: the 
provide services and the perform service level management cloud computing activities, just like any other 
cloud service provider. 
these are a common set of cloud computing activities  for a csp:cloud service manager, but there are 
additional cloud computing activities that could be performed and are documented in this specification. 
once a cloud service is available for use, two cloud service customer sub-roles perform various activities. 
first, the csc:cloud service administrator performs the administer tenancies activity using the administrator 
function functional component, to set up the tenancy and to grant access rights to csc:cloud service users. 
once this is done, csc:cloud service users perform the use cloud service activity by leveraging the user 
function functional component  to interact with the cloud service . meanwhile, the csc:cloud service 
administrator typically monitors the service to ensure that it is running correctly and meeting the terms of 
the sla, again using the administrator function functional component.  
