security 7 
 
  1057 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
(no additional implementation guidance) the cloud service provider should provide functions for 
managing the access rights of the cloud service 
customer's cloud service users, and specifications for 
the use of these functions. 
other information for cloud services 
the cloud service provider should support third-party identity and access management technologies for its 
cloud services and the associated administration interfaces. these technologies can enable easier integration 
and easier user identity administration between the cloud service customer's systems and the cloud service, 
and can ease the use of multiple cloud services, supporting such capabilities as single sign-on. 
9.2.3 management of privileged access rights 
control 9.2.3 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
the cloud service customer should use sufficient 
authentication techniques (e.g., multi-factor 
authentication) for authenticating the cloud service 
administrators of the cloud service customer to the 
administrative capabilities of a cloud service according 
to the identified risks. 
the cloud service provider should provide sufficient 
authentication techniques for authenticating the cloud 
service administrators of the cloud service customer to 
the administrative capabilities of a cloud service, 
according to the identified risks. for example, the cloud 
service provider can provide multi-factor authentication 
capabilities or enable the use of third-party multi-factor 
authentication mechanisms. 
9.2.4 management of secret authentication information of users 
control 9.2.4 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
the cloud service customer should verify that the cloud 
service provider's management procedure for allocating 
secret authentication information, such as passwords, 
meets the cloud service customer's requirements. 
the cloud service provider should provide information 
on procedures for the management of the secret 
authentication information of the cloud service 
customer, including the procedures for allocating such 
information and for user authentication. 
other information for cloud services 
the cloud service customer should control the management of secret authentication information by using its 
own or third party identity and access management technologies. 
9.2.5 review of user access rights 
control 9.2.5 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
9.2.6 removal or adjustment of access rights 
control 9.2.6 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
