 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   171 
(3) logical components that can cover the set up legal agreement activity: the set up legal agreement 
activity concerns the service agreement between the cloud service customer and the chosen cloud 
service provider(s) see clause 8.4.2.8 in [itu-t y.3502]. the contract management logical component 
(clause 6.4.3) manages all contracts in csb in terms of sla. so, the contract management logical 
component fully covers the set up legal agreement activity. 
(4) logical components that can cover the assist csc for accessing service activity: the assist csc for 
accessing service activity focuses on acquiring access information for a cloud service from a csp who 
provides the cloud service and forwarding of the access information to the csc who requested the 
cloud service so that the csc understands how to access to an d use the service. the service access 
manager logical component ( clause 6.4.4) manages access information of cloud services brokered 
by a cloud service broker by acquiring access information from the csp. also, the service access 
management logical component is capable of forwarding access information to a proper csc.  so, 
the service access management logical component fully supports the assist csc for accessing service 
activity. 
(5) logical components that can cover the check and control service status act ivity: the check and 
control service status activity focuses on assisting cscs in cloud service controls such as stopping, 
resuming and terminating cloud services. also, this activity involves checking status of running cloud 
services by monitoring so that  a cloud service broker enforces service qualities agreed in a sla 
instead of cscs. since the service management logical component ( clause 6.4.5) is a logical 
component to manage controls and status of running cloud services  brokered by a cloud service 
broker, the service management logical component fully supports the check and control service 
status activity. 
 
bibliography 
 
[b-iso/iec 19086-1] iso/iec 19086-1:2016, information technology – cloud computing – service level 
agreement (sla) framework – part 1:overview and concepts. 
https://www.iso.org/standard/67545.html  
 
 
