3 xaas  
 
646  
7.1.1 physical machine 
– it is recommended that iaas csp provides specifi c hardware specifications of physical machine to 
the csc according to sla. 
 note – sla includes, but not limited to, central processing unit (cpu) type, cpu speed, number of cpu cores, 
memory size, disk size and network interface card (nic) number. 
– it is recommended that iaas csp provides the csc with operation handling mechanisms related to 
physical machine such as start, shutdown, hibernate and wakeup. 
– it is recommended that iaas csp provides physical machine related information in response to 
queries from the csc.  
 note – the information include s, but not limited to , physical machine specifications, status and network 
interfaces. 
7.1.2 virtual machine 
– it is recommended that iaas csp provides virtual machine based on the vm template.  
 note – by using the vm te mplate, csc can select the required number of cpu cores, memory size, disk size,  
nic within the resources available according to sla. 
– iaas csp can optionally provide virtual machine based on the configurations specified by the csc. 
– it is required that iaas csp provides the csc with operations handling mechanisms related to vm, 
including, but not limited to, create, delete, start, shutdown, suspend, restore, hibernate and 
wakeup. 
– it is recommended that iaas csp provides vm related information in respon se to queries from the 
csc.  
 note – the vm related information includes, but no t limited to, vm specifications, volume information, vm 
status, ip address and network interfaces. 
7.1.3 vm migration 
– it is recommended that iaas csp provides virtual machine with migration functions. based on 
migration policies, the virtual machine can be migrated from one host to another. 
7.1.4 vm scaling 
– it is recommended that iaas csp provides virtual machine with scaling functions based on the scaling 
policies and monitored events of the virtual machine.  
 note – the types of vm scaling include s, but not limited to , configuration changes ( e.g., cpu, memory, 
bandwidth increased  or bandwidth decreased) or components c hanges (new virtual machine added  or 
removed).  
7.1.5 vm snapshot 
– it is recommended that iaas csp provides virtual machine  with snapshot functions. schedule of 
snapshots taken from the virtual machine can be performed automatically or manually.  
7.1.6  vm clone 
– it is recommended that iaas csp provides virtual machine with clone functions. the cloned vm has 
identical configuration and csp/csc data as the original one. 
7.1.7 vm backup 
– it is recommended that iaas csp provides virtual machine with backup functions. when vm 
becomes faulty or its data is lost, the vm can be restored using its backup stored according to the 
csc policy. 
7.1.8 vm time synchronization 
– it is recommended that iaas csp provides time synchronization functions, which allow the csc to 
control the vm time. 
