5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
920  
table 5-2 – etsi documents and work items related to cci 
reference name/title status 
[etsi ts 103 142] cloud; test descriptions for cloud interoperability published 
[etsi tr 103 125] cloud; slas for cloud services published 
[etsi tr 103 126] cloud; cloud private-sector user recommendations published 
[etsi tr 102 997] cloud; initial analysis of standardization requirements for cloud 
services 
published 
5.1.3 gictf 
global inter-cloud technology forum (gictf) aims to promote standardization of network protocols and the 
interfaces through which cloud systems interwork with each other and to enable t he provision of more 
reliable cloud services. 
gictf works on standardization of inter -cloud interoperability, including functional requirements and 
interface. 
gictf has developed requirements for inter -cloud computing and inter -cloud interface specificatio n. the 
functional requirements of inter-cloud systems have been identified and the inter-cloud interface has been 
developed. three reference points for the interface specified in gictf's documents are the interface between 
inter-cloud service controls, the  interface between inter -cloud service controls and data centre operation 
systems, and the interface between the inter-cloud service controls and the network operation systems. 
table 5-3 – gictf documents and work items related to cci 
reference name/title status 
gictf whitepaper 2012-2 intercloud interface specification draft (cloud resource data model) published 
gictfwhitepaper 2012-2 intercloud interface specification draft (intercloud protocol) published 
gictf white paper 2012-1 technical requirements for supporting the inter-cloud networking published 
gictf whitepaper use cases and functional requirements for inter-cloud computing published 
5.1.4 ieee 
the institute of electrical and electronics engineers (ieee) is a professional association that is dedicated to 
advancing technological innovation and excellence. 
ieee works on inter-cloud related aspects of cci. 
the ieee cloud computing initiative (cci) is a broad-based collaborative project for the cloud to be introduced 
by ieee. several products and services that are now being introduced by ieee cci, including a website, 
conferences, continuing education courses, publications, standards and a platform for testing cloud 
computing applications. 
two major cloud computing standards of ieee cci are currently in process: [ieee p2301] guide for cloud 
portability and interoperability profiles (cpips) and [ieee p2302] standard for intercloud interoperability and 
federation (siif). the purpose of cpip is to advise cloud computing  ecosystem participants (cloud vendors, 
service providers and users) of standards -based choices in areas such as application interfaces, portability 
interfaces, management interfaces, interoperability interfaces, file formats, and operation conversions. cpip 
groups these choices into multiple logical profiles, which are organized to address different cloud 
personalities. 
siif define s topology, functions and governance for cloud -to-cloud interoperability and federation. 
topological elements include clouds, r oots, exchanges (which mediate governance between clouds) and 
gateways (which mediate data exchange between clouds). functional elements include name spaces, 
presence, messaging, resource ontologies (including standardized units of measurement), and trust 
