2 cloud computing management  
 
458  
figure 4 shows the reference point between the components in the cloud -based network management 
functional architecture. all the reference points in figure 4 are reference points as defined in [itu-t m.3010]. 
in order to distinguish these references points in this recommendation, which can show the relationship 
among functional components, they are numbered as r1, r2, r3 r4, and r5 resp ectively, as explained in  
table 1. 
table 1 – reference points in cloud-based network management functional architecture 
name position definition 
r1 between cloud hypervisor 
function and cloud physical 
element function. 
through reference point r1, a hypervisor function can connect to cloud 
physical element functions to perform the virtualized resource 
management functions. (for example, vm management, including but 
are not limited to creation, deletion, query, and modification of 
virtualized resource.) in this recommendation, the virtualized resource 
will be assigned for building management system itself. 
r2 between management 
controller function set and 
cloud hypervisor function. 
through reference point r2, management controller function set can 
interact with cloud hypervisor function. management controller 
function set sometimes may ask the cloud infrastructure function set to 
assign new virtual resources in order to meet new management 
requirements. through this reference point, there is no need for 
management controller fs to know any details about the physical layer 
resources, and it only sends the command including the requirement 
for the virtualized resources, then cloud hypervisor function will handle 
the rest. 
r3 between management 
service function set and 
management controller 
function set. 
reference point r3 is provided from the management controller 
function set to the management service function set. through this 
reference point, applications can use the common functions provided 
by the management controller fs. for example, one service application 
can search for another service application which may be able to meet 
its requirements. management controller fs can also use this reference 
point to perform the management service analysis and composition, 
etc. 
r4 between management 
service applications. 
reference point r4 is between management service functions at the 
application level. usually, there are cases when one management 
service function need the support of another management service 
function, then it just invokes the function provided by that 
management service function. reference point r4 is used in this 
situation. 
r5 between management 
service function set and the 
nefs of the network to be 
managed. 
network to be managed is the target for network management. 
through reference point r5, management service functions can interact 
with the nefs in the network to be managed, and perform the actual 
network management functions.  
 
 
 
  
