 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   57 
figure 7-4 illustrates the concepts of functions, layers and functional components. 
y .3502(14)_f7-4
functional
component
functional
component
functional
component
functional
component
layer
layer
layer
multi-layer
functions
 
figure 7-4 – functional layering 
the cloud computing functional architecture is described in clause 9.1. 
7.3.1 functional components 
a functional component  is a functional building block needed to engage in an activity, backed by an 
implementation. 
the capabilities of a cloud computing  system are fully defined by the set of implemented functional 
components. 
functional components are further described in clause 9.2. 
7.3.2 functional layers 
a layer is a set of functional components that provide similar capabilities or serve a common purpose. 
the functional architecture is partially layered (i.e., has layers and a set of multi-layer functions). 
there are four distinct layers defined in the ccra: 
• user layer, which includes functional components that support the cloud computing activities of 
cloud service customers and cloud service partners; 
• access layer, which includes functional components  that facilitate function distribution and 
interconnection; 
• service layer, which includes functional components that provide the cloud services themselves 
plus related administration and business capabilities, and the orchestration capabilities necessary 
to realize them; 
• resource layer, which includes the functional components that represent the resources needed to 
implement the cloud computing system. 
note that not all layers or functional components are necessarily instantiated in a specific cloud computing 
system. 
7.3.3 multi-layer functions 
the multi -layer functions include functional components  that provide capabilities that are used across 
multiple functional layers. 
multi-layer functions are grouped into subsets. 
the following subsets of multi-layer functions are defined: 
• development support; 
• integration; 
• security systems; 
• operational support systems; 
• business support systems. 
