1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
206  
table i.5 – relationship with related specifications from other sdos  
no. requirements in this 
recommendation 
relationship with related specifications from other sdos 
27 circulation of air flow  – [b-ocp 1s] provides air flow set as 'the card level air baffle must be 
designed to help maintain temperatures of all major components on the 
server card by reducing bypass air and increasing airflow through key 
components' in clause 6.6. 
– [b-ocp 2s] provides airflow set as 'the unit of airflow (or volumetric flow) 
used for this spec is cfm (cubic feet per minute).the maximum allowable 
airflow per watt in the system must be 0.107' in clause 10.2.26. 
– [b-ocp jbog] provides system airflow set as 'the unit of airflow 
(or volumetric flow) used for this spec is cfm (cubic feet per minute). the 
maximum allowable airflow per watt in the system must be 0.14 at sea 
level' in clause 8.2.3. 
– [b-ocp sj] provides cooling set as 'to meet thermal reliability requirement, 
the thermal and cooling solution should dissipate heat from the 
components when system operating at its maximum thermal power' in 
clause 11. 
– [b-ocp yose] provides airflow set as 'the unit of airflow (or volumetric flow) 
used for this spec is cubic feet per minute (cfm)' in clause 8.2.5.  
28 interconnect network 
supports 
– [b-etsi eve007] provide interconnect network supports as 'support links of 
types other than ethernet' in clause 5.4.2. 
– [b-ocp 1s] provides interconnect set as 'when the soc's integrated network 
controller is used as a shared nic, its smbus is routed to connector a as the 
sideband interface' in clause 7.9.1. 
– [b-ocp 2s] provides interconnect set as 'high speed mid-plane is mid-plane 
with power delivery, plus high speed interconnect on mid-plane' in 
clause 12.3. 
– [b-ocp jbog] provides interconnect set as 'for jbog with 8x gpus in sxm2 
form factor, it shall support nvlink interconnection shown below' in 
clause 4.3. 
29 sharing process unit 
component 
– [b-ocp 2s] provides share spi bus set as 'a secondary identical bios chip is 
designed in sharing the same spi bus with multiplexedcs pin' in clause 6.1.  
 – [b-ocp obios] provides share io set as 'ata controllers running in native 
mode use their pci interrupt for both channels and can share this interrupt 
with other devices in the system, like any other pci device' in clause 7.3.1.2.  
30 network topology – [b-ocp ocsb] provides topology set as 'cpu-to-tray backplane mezzanine 
pcie link topology' in clause 7.1. 
31 configuration of 
multiple processing 
units 
– [b-ocp 1s] provides configuration set as 'set bridge ic configuration' in 
clause 9.7.10, table 6. 
– [b-ocp 2s] provides configuration set as 'vendor should provide utility 
under centos to perform vr configuration change. configuration change 
should take effect without ac cycling node' in clause 15.3.4. 
– [b-ocp obios] provides multi process configuration set as 'the intel xeon  
scalable processor is implemented with 1 or more cores with each core 
capable of supporting intel ht technology. the result is multiple logical 
processors in a physical package' in clause 4.13. 
