 assisting developing countries 8 
 
   1107 
• [itu-t x.1258] "enhanced entity authentication based on a ggregated attributes"; aggregating 
attributes from multiple attribute authorities may be needed in order to enable a relying party to 
enhance its trust in the identity of a party. the aggregation can be regarded as having to deal with 
a collection of globally unique identifiers, which is common across all attribute authorities.  
all ict stakeholders have a role to play in making cloud computing services more trusted in developing 
countries. there could be some aspects that may differ from country to country  but a common framework 
could be provided to make it easier for stakeholders to accept them.  
it is believed that the more trust issues are handled, the more cscs will take up cloud computing services. 
9 challenges of cloud computing adoption 
the regulation of cloud computing services is not properly defined in most developing countries which greatly 
inhibits the adoption of cloud services in these countries. the main challenges that have affected the 
adoption of cloud computing in developing countries include: 
9.1 lack of regulatory framework for cloud computing services 
developing counties lack the regulatory framework to govern the provision and consumption of cloud 
computing services.  
9.2 security and privacy concerns 
data security and privacy are the m ost salient challenges associated with the adoption of cloud computing 
services in developing countries. cscs tend to be sceptical about handing over their data to a third party. 
there are concerns of confidentiality of company information, the likelihood of corruption of data and the 
fate of csc's data when there is a switch over to another service provider or after termination of the contract. 
csps have a responsibility to demonstrate their credibility as well as to improve awareness on the safety of 
cloud computing services.  
a lot of speculation has been raised on the geographical location of the data centres. cscs feel they lose 
control of their data once it is in a location outside their jurisdiction. the local authorities may also not have 
control ove r such data. cscs get concerned regarding how they could be protected in such instances or 
indeed what each country's strategy could be in this regard. 
9.3 infrastructure needs 
some csps highlighted the need to invest more in infrastructure that could prov ide a broader diversity of 
cloud computing services as well as increase the capacity of providers to serve more users. this includes the 
need to deploy data centres, internet exchange points (ixp) and robust electricity infrastructure sources.  
9.4 capacity building 
csps highlighted the need for capacity building initiatives on the use, regulation and implementation of cloud 
computing services as well as the development of cloud computing applications that will create new 
opportunities for cloud services. t he capacity building interventions could be targeted at corporate 
organizations as well as embedded in the curriculum for schools and tertiary institutions. 
9.5 quality of service 
the provision of cloud computing services relies on good quality and reliabl e internet services. there has 
been a general concern from the csps and cscs about the unreliable and low internet connection speed over 
which cloud services are provided. the lack of ixps has also resulted in users paying high international 
bandwidth prices thereby negatively affecting cloud service provision and uptake of cloud services in most 
developing countries. 
