 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   35 
use case 
requirements – on-demand network configuration 
– heterogeneous networks compatibility 
– qos-guaranteed connectivity 
– secured connectivity 
i.4 daas general use case 
use case 
name daas general use case 
abstract – between a consumer and a csp: in this scenario, a consumer accesses and uses data or 
applications in a csp which offers a virtual desktop service. a consumer can enjoy the 
environment with all programs and applications which are identical with those of 
traditional pcs. the consumer can choose the virtual hardware specification of its virtual 
desktops. if necessary, the environment (i.e., operating system) can be changed to 
another one immediately. since all data is totally stored with password protection and 
managed in the csp, all the consumer has to do is keep up with a password.  
– between an enterprise and a csp: an enterprise using a virtual desktop service from a 
csp for its internal processes is included in this use case. in this scenario, the enterpri se 
can select applications or os in the daas service for certain enterprise functions. unlike 
the use case between a consumer and a csp, the enterprise normally uses storage for 
backups. also, the enterprise can overcome peak loads and save energy by reque sting 
the csp online to increase or decrease the number of virtual desktops, respectively.  
– between an enterprise, a consumer and a csp: in this scenario, the enterprise makes 
the consumer work with its internal processes outside of the enterprise by tran sferring 
virtual desktops and related data through the csp. contrary to the above two scenarios, 
the consumer cannot select applications freely and more limitations to access data in 
the enterprise may exist than within the enterprise. whenever the consumer connects 
with the csp, the csp sends data to the consumer by accessing the enterprise to handle 
or bypass corresponding data. 
roles csp, csc 
figure 
 

