xaas 3 
 
     697 
appendix i 
 
mapping among naas functional requirements and functionalities 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
this appendix aims to describe the mapping among naas functional requirements (specified in 
[itu-t y.3512]) and functionalities. the mapping between functiona lities and functional requirements of 
three kinds of naas services had been taken into account. 
i.1 mapping and derivation of functionality for naas service instantiation 
taking the functional requirements ''elastic network reconfiguration '', ''dynamic and flexible network 
services composition and steering'', and ''unified network control mechanism'' as the analysis example, naas 
architecture needs to satisfy dynamic configuration change requirements based on real-time network status 
and policy, and network resource abstraction across different layers including application layer (l7), ip layer 
(l3), and lower layers (l0-l2). 
the traditional development and operation procedures are always separated and hardly address real -time 
configuration changes due to slow deployment of network functions/devices and unsatisfactory quality of 
experience (qoe). therefore, it is also needed fo r the naas csp to offer programmable ways to configure 
networks (so called development and operations ( devops)), which is also mentioned in the functional 
requirement ''programmable naas platform''. 
note – devops is a  software development method  that stresses communication, collaboration (information sharing 
and web service usage), integration, automation and measurement of cooperation between  software developers and 
other it professionals. devops acknowledges the interdependence of software development and it operations. 
to implement network resource abstraction across different layers, it is needed to model different network 
resources in a unified manner, including physical and/or virtualized network nodes and links. apart from this, 
network services and t he corresponding deployment policies also need respective unified models. these 
three kinds of models should be able to share information with one another in order that the real -time 
configuration change demands can be transferred from the naas csc to the naas csp's network elements. 
moreover, regarding the requirement ''optimized and fine -grained traffic engineering '', its detailed 
description includes ''collects near real -time utilization metrics and topology data from it s own network 
equipment'' and ''controls the network resource allocation by reconfiguring network profiles as well as 
properties in response to dynamically changing traffic demands'', which also require dynamic configuration 
changes response. therefore, th is can be grouped to derive the co mmon functionality with the above  
mentioned functional requirements. 
i.2 mapping and derivation of functionality for service orchestration 
regarding ''coexistence with legacy network services and functions'', its detailed description includes ''avoid 
or mitigate possible performance and flexibility impacts when introducing new network connectivity 
services'' and ''support coexistence of new network connectivity services with legacy systems '', which 
requires naas architecture to provide the evolution and incremental deployment mechanism for the new 
paradigm of networking. 
taking the introduction of sdn as an example, during its transition, sdn-based networks should/could coexist 
with legacy ip networks, any sdn -based deployme nt should/could be able to exchange reachability 
information, forwarding traffic, and express routing policies with exiting ip networks. 
moreover, ''interworking among different vpn solutions '' is an example of networking connectivity 
interworking implementation requirement and can also be grouped in this functionality. 
regarding the ''unified network control mechanism '', ''centralized control view and abstraction view of 
resources'', ''unified sla for multiple optimized networks'', and ''leveraging transport networks dynamically'' 
functional requirements, their detailed description includes ''provide a unified control mechanism for the 
