8 assisting developing countries  
 
1100  
 
figure 7-6 – cost for adoption of cloud computing 
8 cloud computing requirements in developing countries 
8.1 standardization requirements 
several efforts are being made by various standards developing organizations (sdos) to develop cloud 
computing standards that will foster the adoption of cloud computing services. standards will set a 
benchmark that will be used to assess and select the mo st apt cloud computing solution for a given 
requirement.  
there is need for fervent standardization of cloud computing in developing countries to enable the ease and 
flexible adoption of cloud computing and to optimize the use of this technology in these countries. standards 
will also help to circumvent the possible vendor or operator lock -in of cscs. the different aspects of the 
standards that need to be considered are as highlighted. 
8.1.1 cybersecurity 
itu has developed several recommendations on securit y in the cloud. the recommendations developed 
hitherto include:  
• security framework for cloud computing [itu -t x.1601] which analyses security threats and 
challenges in the cloud computing environment and describes security capabilities that could 
mitigate these threats and address security challenges. 
• recommendation [itu -t x.1602] on security requirements for software as a service application 
environments which analyses the maturity levels of saas application and proposes security 
requirements to provi de a consistent and secure service execution environment for saas 
applications. 
• information technology – security techniques ([itu -t x.1631]) – code of practice for information 
security controls based on [iso/iec 27002] for cloud services. this recommend ation provides 
guidelines for information security controls applicable to the provision and use of cloud services for 
both csps and cscs. 
• generic security guidelines for the cloud service customer (csc) data in cloud computing are provide 
in [itu-t x.1641]. this recommendation also analyses the csc data security lifecycle and proposes 
security requirements at each stage of the data lifecycle. furthermore, it provides guidelines on 
when each control should be used for best security practice. 
• recommendation [itu-t x.1642] on guidelines of operational security for cloud computing provides 
generic operational security guidelines for cloud computing from the perspective of cloud service 
providers (csps). a set of security measures and detailed sec urity activities for the daily operation 
and maintenance are provided to help csps mitigate security risks and address security challenges 
for the operation of cloud computing. 

