intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  905 
ii.3.9 test case: multipath routing 
table ii.30 shows the test case for multipath routing. 
table ii.30 – test case: multipath routing 
multipath routing test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc accesses a cloud service through multiple network paths. 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.3.6 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc enables a multipath routing function for a particular 
cloud service.  
 
3 stimulus one network path is unavailable.  
4 check the particular service is still accessed with the sla 
guaranteed by another network path.  
 
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
ii.3.10 test case: network information inquiring 
table ii.31 shows the test case for network information inquiring. 
table ii.31 – test case: network information inquiring 
network information inquiring test description 
test purpose to verify that the csc inquires network information from the csp with network device(s) 
specification, network traffic performance (in terms of throughput, jitter, loss, delay) and 
network topology. 
reference [itu-t y.3513] clause 7.3 
test sequence step type description result 
1 stimulus the csc queries the network device's information.  
2 check the csc receives the information of a particular network's 
device specification that is consistent with the actual status 
of the network. 
 
3 stimulus csc queries network traffic performance.  
4 check the csc receives the information of a particular network's 
traffic performance status that is consistent with the actual 
status of the network. 
 
5 stimulus the csc queries network topology.  
6 check the csc receives the information of a particular network's 
topology that is consistent with the actual status of the 
network. 
 
test verdict it is deemed as successfully terminated if all the checks are successful, otherwise it is 
deemed as failed. 
 
  
