3 xaas  
 
680  
8.2.2 administration capabilities (naas) 
the administration capabilities (naas) functional component provides a set of capabilities for accessing the 
oss-naas functionalities (see clause 7.8.1) related to the management of instantiated naas service s. this 
includes functionalities contained within the oss -naas functional components. for example, the 
administration capabilities (naas) functional component allows the naas csc to view performance and fault 
information related to instantiated naas servic es. the naas csp will collect information requested by the 
naas csc and make it available through reporting to the naas csc via the administration capabilities (naas) 
functional component. 
8.2.3 service capabilities (naas) 
the service capabilities (naas) f unctional component consists of the necessary software required to 
implement the naas service offered to the naas csc and implements the functionality defined by the naas 
service interface, i.e., the interface offered to the naas csc, independent of the service implementation. 
as shown in figure 8 -2, the service capabilities (naas) functional component provides capabilities exposed 
to the naas csc according to the naas service model and naas service operational policy model selected by 
the naas csc through business level interactions with the naas csp. refer to clause 8.3.1 for the description 
of these two naas-related service models. 
using the naas service exposed api provided by the service capabilities (naas) functional component, the 
naas csc can trigger naas service specific on-demand behaviours (made possible by the naas csp according 
to the selected naas service model). these on-demand requests are validated by the naas csp according to 
the naas service specific policies that govern such on-demand behaviour. the on-demand behaviours (and 
associated constraints) are defined in the naas service operational policy model selected by the naas csc at 
naas instantiation t ime. for example, a naas service operational policy model may describe the range of 
bandwidth in which the naas csc is permitted to send traffic to the naas csp  or the range of computing 
resources that a specific nf instance is allowed to be allocated in the naas csp infrastructure. 
8.3 oss functional components 
the osss functional components encompass the set of operational-related management capabilities of the 
naas functional architecture in order to manage and control aspects from naas services down to the naas 
csp infrastructure resources including cloud compute and storage, network connect ivity and physical 
resources. 
the oss components described in this clause are intended to support the functionalities for an evolved real-
time oss described in clause  7.8. the description of oss components follows the structure of the oss as 
shown in figure 7-1. 
annex a describes reference points related to oss functional components. 
8.3.1 oss-naas functional components 
the oss-naas functional components encompass the set of operational-related management functionalities 
that are required in order to manage and control naas services offered to customers (refer to clause 7.8.1). 
note – these functional components are not meant to be specific to naas and are applicable to other cloud service 
categories provided by naas csps. 
figure 8-3 shows the oss-naas functional components. 
