cloud computing management 2 
 
  517 
 
figure 7-1 – illustration of naas-related metadata positions 
operation support system (oss) -naas s ervice catalogue functional component s (see clause 8 .3.1 of 
[itu-t y.3515]) includes a listing of all cloud services of naas cloud service providers (csps)  including the 
relevant naas services . naas service data model, naas service operational policy data model and naas 
resource data model are needed in this functional component for naas service instantiation. 
the service capabilities (naas) functional component (see clause 8.2.3 of [itu-t y.3515]) in the service layer 
provides capabilities exposed to the naas cloud service customer (csc) according to the naas service data 
model and naas s ervice operational policy data model selected by the naas csc through busin ess level 
interactions with the naas csp. 
7.1 naas service data model 
the naas service data model (see clause 8.3.1 of [itu-t y.3515]) describes the specific network service based 
on the characteristic of the service that can be used for service delivery, e.g., l3vpn and l2vpn data models 
under development of the working groups l3sm [b-l3sm] and l2sm [b-l2sm] of ietf. 
7.2 naas service operational policy data model 
the naas service op erational policy data model (see clause 8.3.1 of [itu -t y.3515]) describe high -level 
network-wide polices for a given naas service, which can be input into the network management function 
(within a software -defined networking (sdn) controller, an orchestra tor, or a network element), and 
combined with the naas service data model and mapped into a target configuration of network elements, 
e.g., generic policy data model described in [b-supa] of ietf. the network management function can control 
the configuration and monitor the network elements and services according to such policies. 
7.3 naas resource data model 
the naas resource data model (see clause 8.3.1 of [itu-t y.3515]) describes topology of naas csp's resources 
across different layers and re flects the attributes and operational parameters of given naas resources 
(e.g., network services (nss), nfs, virtualised resources, physical resources). 
7.4 relationship among metadata in naas service 
the naas service operational policy data model can manage and adjust service behaviours as necessary. the 
naas service operational policy data model and the naas service data model have a one-to-many 
relationship. 
the naas service operational policy data model can manage and adjust resource s behaviour as necessary. 
the n aas service operational policy data model and the naas resource data model have a one-to-many 
relationship. 

