xaas 3 
 
  739 
8.1.1.3 access management 
saas app lication environment administrators are required to  provide mechanisms,  which delegate 
authorization to tenants' administrators. the tenants' administrators grant access rights to their 
corresponding resources. the access management of such a saas applicat ion environment should support 
multiple access control models, such as identity based model, strategy based model, role based model, task 
based model, etc. 
for custom and configurable level  saas applications , a role -based access control mode l is a basic 
requirement. for instance, csn, which supports to build a service from cs p, may be in charge of some 
applications but has no rights to administer the whole cloud service system. besides, csn may be allowed to 
access only a part of the resources with granted access rights. however, csn can share its resource by 
providing application interfaces to other csns. 
for the multi-tenant and scalable level, an integration of access control model for each individual and group 
is needed. for the role -based access control, shared  resources among multiple tenants should be utilized 
according to task groups in a work flow and rights granted to those tasks. thus, when these task groups are 
executed, the saas application environment should define the support task-based access control mechanism. 
this mechanism is used to  make sure that access right of tenants to underlying resources could be timely 
granted and revoked, and underlying resources are prevented from unauthorized utilization.  
8.1.2 interface security 
the saas application environment is required to  secure interfaces open to csps or csns  through which 
various kinds of cloud computing services are delivered  or developed , and it is also required to  secure 
communications based on these interfaces. mechanisms that are available to ensure interface security 
include but are not limited to: unilateral/mutual authentication, integrity checksum, digital signature, etc. 
8.1.3 data security 
8.1.3.1 data isolation 
data can be isolated physically or logically. physical data isol ation should be accomplished by the access 
control of physical storages. it  should require the saas application environment to store data of different 
tenants in different areas of physical storage, or implement the data accesses control for different tena nts 
through access permission, data domain or any other methods. logical da ta isolation implies that different 
tenants should be avoided to access others' data by the means of techniques such as virtualization , even if 
all the data are stored together. 
for custom and configurable level saas applications, each tenant's data are se parately stored and isolated 
from the others at the physical level. 
for multi-tenant and scalable level saas applications, all tenant's data are stored in the cloud. therefore, the 
saas application environment is required to be intelligent enough to segregate data from different tenants, 
and maintain isolation among different tenants' data at rest, at processing or at transmission. the boundary 
between each tenant should be ensured at the physical level or at the logical level, which depends on the 
required isolation granularity and the specific deployment of the cloud computing software and hardware. 
8.1.3.2 data confidentiality 
in most cases , the tenant's data is  on off -premise storage and utilization, and is subjected to exposure . 
therefore, the saas application environment is required to support encryption mechanisms to ensure data 
confidentiality in transmission, during processing or out of occupation , and prev ent data leakage due to 
security vulnerabilities in the application. 
data encryption servic e is required for all saas levels. critical data is required to be encrypted to prevent 
exposure. 
for multi-tenant and scalable level, as tenants' data should be stored in one database or even one big table, 
the saas application environment is required to  provide an appropriate key management mechanism to  
ensure that the data cannot be cracked by other tenants. 
