xaas 3 
 
740  
8.1.3.3 data integrity 
data including system data and user data, such as logs and configuration data, require the saas application 
environment to  support integrity mechanisms to prevent them from unauthorized tampering in 
transmission, during processing or out of occupation. 
system log and application log are required not to be modified . in this case, when  either fault or misuse 
occurs, csp and malicious software are prevented from concealing trace by modifying logs. 
saas application may require cscs to configure it on demand. the configuration data, such as configuration 
file, is also required to not be modified without authorization. 
in the saas application environment, users' data is stored in the cloud which is managed by csp. in this case, 
the verification of data integrity becomes a remarkable security requirement. moreover, it is required to 
verify the integrity of massive data. 
8.1.3.4 data reliability 
to support data reliability, the saas application environment is required to  support data backup or 
redundancy mechanisms to ensure that tenants can access the data even if part of the cloud storage nodes 
lose efficacy. 
hosted data  are required to  implement a multiple -site backup ; otherwise, the data will be completely 
ineffective. the saas application environment is required to have the ability to fully recover data and restore 
the data in time as well as keep data synchronism to ensure the consistency of multiple copies. 
8.1.3.5 data traceability and control 
the saas application environm ent is required to ensure that physical location of data comply with the 
applicable law and local regulations, and with any restrictions in the legal agreements. the saas application 
environment is required to provide methods for cscs to specify their data storage locations and verify that 
their data are appropriately placed. 
major concerns in a shared and virtualized infrastructure include not only loss of control by users over their 
data, but also locating data and controlling its whole life cycle. at any given time, the saas application 
environment is required to kno w exactly where both system data and user data are stored and processed, 
and provide verification of data location for cscs. both during and after usage, it shall not be possible for 
unauthorized third parties (including other csps) to trace the movement of the data. 
8.1.4 security assessment and audit 
when underlying resources are changed, cracked or worked improperly, the saas application environment 
is required to be triggered to initiate security assessment procedure to evaluate whether or not specified  
security services or their applied security policies are affected, and indications or instructions are suggested 
to provide if they cannot satisfy predetermined conditions. an authorized party should be delegated to verify 
that the saas application enviro nment complies with the applicable security requirements. s ecurity 
assessment or security audit could be performed by csc, csp or a third party (csn), and security certification 
could be performed by an authorized third party (csn). 
independent trusted third parti es should be used t o provide reliable, independent and neutral security 
assessments or security audit. 
8.1.5 security hardening 
the saas application environment aims mainly at offering secure service oriented multi-tenant development, 
deployment and an execution environment for saas applications. security features of saas applications are 
in some cases insufficient or not well developed. the saas application environment is required to retrieve 
and verify those deficient securi ty features of the saas applica tions, and provide differentiated security 
hardening mechanisms to enhance saas applications according to those deficient security features in order 
to meet the security requirements of different tenants in different contexts . the security features of 
