 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   161 
table i.7 – a use case for cloud service cancellation 
title a use case for deregistration of  cloud services 
description this use case assumes that cloud service deregistration is performed when the contract 
between a csp and a csn: cloud service broker is cancelled during normal contract agreement. 
the contract cancellation is out of scope and the abnormal situations such as bankruptcy and 
service disruption of the csp are not considered in this contribution. 
service deregistration can be done by the request from a csp or a csn: cloud service broker. a 
csp initiates deregistration of the cloud service for some internal situations (e.g., modification 
or unavailability of the cloud service) during the cloud service.  a csn: cloud service broker can 
also request to deregister the cloud service, e.g., violation of contract requirement by csps.  
when the service deregistration is agreed with each other between a csp and a csn: cloud 
service broker and it is confirmed, the csn: cloud service broker stops the cscs search and 
selects the service targeted to be deregistered and stops posting the servi ce list at the 
workspace from the product catalogue. 
the csn: cloud service broker also investigates the cscs that have contacted to use the service 
and, if they exist, notifies deregistration of the service to the registered cscs. when cscs are 
using the service currently, the csn: cloud service broker  requests the csp to maintain the 
service until the cscs finish using the service. after that, the csn: cloud service broker cancels 
the contract corresponding to the cloud service between the csn: cloud service broker and the 
csc and, if needed, renews the contract between them. 
to complete the service deregistration, the csn: cloud service broker can start the internal 
process of deregistration. the csn: cloud service broker  deregisters the service on a prod uct 
catalogue and invalidates all related information such as monitoring, metering, csc's account, 
sla, etc. csp's apis  that allow the csc to interact with the csp are also disabled so as not to 
access the service any more. the csn: cloud service broker fi nally notifies the csp 
deregistration that the cloud service is completed. 
roles/sub-roles csp, csn: cloud service broker, csc 
figure 
 
pre-conditions 
(optional) 
a csp registered a cloud service to the list of a product catalogue in a csn: cloud service 
broker.  
a csc signed a contract with a csn: cloud service broker for cloud service. 
post-conditions 
(optional) 
a csc cannot search the cloud services on product catalogue and cannot use the cloud 
service. 

