xaas 3 
 
  569 
appendix iv 
 
value for response time limit 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
the response time is specified in clause 7 as a general requirement for daas. the value of the response time-
limit is needed in order to meet the csc’s acceptable qoe.  
this a ppendix only provides general information relevant to response time. however, the response time 
described in here is not specific to cloud computing and daas. 
figure iv.1 shows a response time model [b-shneiderman]. 
y .3503(14)_fiv .1
user
initiates
request
arrival
of user's
request
server begins
to process
user's request
server completes
processing
user’s request
event
result
delivered
user's device
begins
response
1) response time
2) interaction time 
4) t ransport delay4) t ransport delay 3) server processing time
user's device
completes
response
5) render time
 
figure iv.1 – model of response time 
as shown in figure iv.1, the response time includes transport delays, server processing time and render ing 
time on a client as defined hereafter: 
• response time: an interval from the moment when user initiates an activity until that user's device 
begins to present its result on the display; 
• interaction time: the same as response time; 
• transport delay: an interval from the moment when user's request is sent until it is received by a 
server or the time from the moment a server sends; 
• server processing time: operation time used by a server to process the user's request; 
• rendering time: duration for gene rating an image with the received event result s screen on the 
user's device. 
values for acceptable response times may differ depending on the use case, but experimental studies show 
that a user starts to be bored or interrup ts if there is no response withi n one second [b -tolia]. it seems 
common that users are intolerable if the reaction time takes more than one second.  
as shown in table iv.1 [b-tolia], in the range from 150 ms to one second users become increasingly aware of 
the response time, and unhappy after one second. 
table iv.1 – impact of interactive response time [b-tolia] 
response time subjective impression 
< 150 ms crisp 
150 ms to one second noticeable to annoying 
one to two seconds annoying 
two to five seconds unacceptable 
longer than five seconds unusable 
