 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   167 
table i.10 – a use case of cloud service control status validation 
post-conditions 
(optional)  
derived 
requirements 
– initiation of validation (see clause 7.5) 
– validation of result for request of cloud service control (see clause 7.5)  
– history of cloud service control status validation (see clause 7.5) 
– status checking period for validation (see clause 7.5) 
– notification of result for request of cloud service control (see clause 7.5)  
 
table i.11 – a use case for cloud service migration in cloud service brokerage 
title a use case for cloud service migration in cloud service brokerage.  
description this use case describes cloud service migration in cloud service brokerage during the service 
period. 
the csc is using a cloud service provided by the csp(a) under a contract with a csn: cloud 
service broker.  
the csc determines to change the physical location of the service according to some usage 
requirements. for instance, the csc, who operates a busine ss using the cloud service, may 
determine to move business location to another country. 
the csc makes a request to migrate the cloud service to the csn: cloud service broker.  
the csn: cloud service broker searches product catalogue to select a csp candidat e (csp(b)) 
who provides an equivalent service with the existing service. the csn: cloud service broker 
and the csc negotiate to determine the most appropriate service for the migration. after the 
csn: cloud service broker reaches an agreement, the csn: clo ud service broker notifies the 
updated service information due to the service migration. 
on behalf of the csc, the csn: cloud service broker requests to create a service to the csp(b) 
that can accommodate the service requirements. 
the requested csp(b) creates a service according to the service requirements. 
the csn: cloud service broker makes a request for service migration to the csp(a) so that the 
csp(a) migrates data and the status of the existing service to the service created by the csp(b). 
after the c sn: cloud service broker confirms that the migration of status and data was 
accomplished, the csp(b) initiates the created service using the transferred data and status.  
the csp(b) informs on a creation of the service and provides information for accessing  the 
service such as service access point, id and password to the csn: cloud service broker.  
using the access information, the csc accesses and utilizes the created service.  
finally, the csn: cloud service broker requests termination of the existing service to the csp(a) 
and ends their contract. 
roles/sub-roles csp, csn: cloud service broker, csc 
