1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
218  
table ii.4 – using an interconnect network for high-performance service – use case 
derived 
requirements 
– sharing process unit component (see clause 7.1.5) 
– interconnect network supports (see clause 7.1.5) 
– device driver and api supports (see clause 7.2) 
– expansion of interconnect network (see clause 7.4) 
– network topology (see clause 7.1.5) 
 
table ii.5 – physical machine for hyper-scale deployment – use case 
title physical machine for hyper-scale deployment 
description this use case covers the situation where very large numbers of physical machines will be 
employed in multiple data centres around a region or around the world. in this case, a single 
physical machine will typically be implemented as a server blade that fits into a specially built 
rack. the rack will typically also include storage, management and networking equipment, 
which might or might not be implemented using similar blades. 
roles/sub-roles csp: cloud service operations manager. 
figure in this type of deployment, physical 
machines are constructed for 
deployment in high-density racks 
specifically designed for the purpose. 
each rack provides all the 
infrastructure required to support 
the machines, including power, 
network connectivity and 
ventilation/cooling. individual 
physical machines are automatically 
initialised and provisioned with 
necessary software when plugged 
into an active rack. once running, 
each machine is made available for 
the deployment of vms or other 
functions requested by cscs or csp 
administrators. fault tolerance is 
often provided by software across 
multiple machines, so an individual 
machine can fail without adverse 
effect on the overall system. 
pre-conditions 
(optional) 
csp: the csp wishes to deploy many physical machines in two or more locations, using 
minimal staffing. 
post-conditions 
(optional) 
a physical machine is plugged into a rack, configures itself to the local network and is 
automatically provisioned with all necessa ry software including the host operating system, 
network stacks and hypervisor. the data centre management system is then able to deploy 
workloads to the machine. in the event of failure, the machine can be removed from the rack 
and a replacement plugged in with minimal impact on deployed cloud services. 
a data centre can be left unmanned for several days or weeks at a time. when visited, the 
failed machines can be quickly removed and replaced by new or refurbished machines, which 
configure and provision themselves automatically. 

