 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   99 
annex a 
 
further details regarding the user view and functional view 
(this annex forms an informative part of this recommendation | international standard.) 
this annex provides further details regarding the relationship of the user view and functional view. 
a.1 the cloud service customer–cloud service provider relationship 
there are three key elements in the cloud service customer–cloud service provider relationship: 
1) the csc:cloud service user using provider cloud services to achieve their business goals; 
2) the csc:business manager using cloud service provider business capabilities to subscribe to cloud 
services and manage their use from a business perspective; 
3) the csc:cloud service administrator using the cloud service provider administration capabilities to 
administer the use of the cloud services from the cloud service customer perspective. 
a.1.1 functional relationship 
the cloud service is made available to csc:cloud service users via an end point and interface enabled by the 
service access functional component. the functions of this interface and the associated information flows 
are domain specific to the cloud service and are thus not in the scope of the reference architecture. however, 
there are some broad aspects that should be reflected in the service interface, in particular the need to 
identify and authenticate the csc:cloud service user. 
the csc:cloud se rvice user performs the use cloud service activity through the user function functional 
component, which then invokes the cloud service through the service access functional component. the 
service access functional component  performs any authentication of the csc:cloud service user and 
establishes authorization to use particular capabilities of the cloud service. if authorized, the service access 
functional component invokes the cloud service implementation which performs the request. 
figure a.1 illustrates the functional component relationships involved in the use cloud service activity of the 
csc:cloud service user. 
