 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   149 
for the establishment of a contract, this logical component needs to create a cloud sla document by using 
csp's sla and notifies it to the contracted csc. this logical component registers an agreed service level to the 
service management logical component to guarantee the contracted service quality. if the cloud service fails to 
meet the service level, this logical component enforces remedies for failures to meet the terms of the sla.  
6.4.4 service access management 
a service access management logical component requests to launch a contracted c loud service to the 
designated csp. this logical component also manages access information of cloud services. in order to use to 
a cloud service, a csc requires to get access information. after a csp launches a cloud service, the csp 
provides access information to a cloud service broker and this logical component manages the information 
and delivers the access information to the csc.  
note – the access information is required for a csc to access a cloud service. the access information may include an 
access point such as internet protocol address or uniform resource locator (url) of the cloud service and authentication 
methods such as a certificate or identification (id) and password to access the cloud service . 
6.4.5 service management 
a service management logical component manages the controls and status of running cloud services. this 
logical component delivers control requests for the running cloud services to csps in order to stop, resume 
and terminate them on behalf of a csc. this logical component also  checks the status of running cloud 
services by monitoring and enforces the service level agreed in a sla. if a cloud service fails to meet the 
service level, this logical component needs to take an action to handle the situation by interacting with a 
contract management logical component. 
7 functional requirements of cloud service brokerage 
7.1 functional requirements for workspace 
– authentication and authorization for workspace : it is required that a csn: cloud service broker 
have authentication and authorization mechanisms to authorize csps and cscs access to workspace. 
– account management: it is required that a csn: cloud service broker manage the accounts of cscs 
and csps. 
– user interface for cscs: it is recommended that a csn: cloud service broker provide a user interface 
for cscs to search, select, request, launch, monitor, manage and pay for the cloud services from the 
multiple csps. 
– user interface for csps: it is recommended that a csn: cloud service broker provide a user interface 
for csps to register information about the csps and cloud services to a csn: cloud service broker. 
 note – the information about a csp includes a name of the csp, entry point url of the csp at which a csn: 
cloud service broker gains access to and communicates with the csp, geographical location of the csp, access 
account to the csp and so on. 
7.2 functional requirements for product catalogue management 
– registration of cloud service: it is required that a csn: cloud service broker provide registration of 
cloud services in the product catalogue. 
 note 1 – depending on the service models, the subject and way of registration are different. for a cloud 
service aggregation model, cloud ser vices in csps are registered in a product catalogue. for cloud service 
integration and customization models, a csn: cloud service broker registers new cloud services to a product 
catalogue by integrating the registered cloud services according to the broke r and csc's requirements, 
respectively. 
– cloud service deregistration: by the agreement between a csp and a csn: cloud service broker, it 
is required that the csn: cloud service broker deregister the cloud services in a product catalogue. 
 note 2 – the deregistration of a cloud service includes disabling the cloud service from the product catalogue, 
notifying the deregistration of the cloud service to related cscs, stopping all running cloud services and 
deleting the cloud service from the product catalogue. 
