2 cloud computing management  
 
532  
the data consumer side-related operations can be described as the following procedure. 
1) the data consumer requests a data operation from the idpep. 
2) the idpep requests a data policy decision from the idpdp. 
3) the idpdp requests the specific data policy from the idpip. 
4) the idpip returns the requested data policy to the idpdp. 
5) the idpdp returns the decision result to the idpep based on the collected available resources. 
6) the idpep performs the data operation based on the data policies. 
7) the processed data result is returned to the idpep. 
8) the idpep provides the final results of the data operation to the data consumer. 
6.4 relationship with cloud computing reference architecture 
[itu-t y.3502] specifies two functional comp onents to support inter -cloud computing, also known as peer 
service integration (see clause 9.2.5.1.4 of [itu-t y.3502]) and peer service management (see clause 9.2.5.3.9 
of [itu-t y.3502]). [itu-t y.3516] identifies an inter-cloud specific extension to the functional components of 
[itu-t y.3502] that are part of integration, security systems, operational support system (oss) and business 
support system (bss) (see  clause 8 of [itu -t y.3516]). this recommendation is based on the functions 
defined in [itu -t y.3502] and [itu -t y.3516] on inter -cloud computing and does not define or extend any 
new functions. this recommendation focuses on data management in the inter-cloud environment based on 
the establishment of a relationship (pattern) among multiple peer csp s, including peering, federation and 
intermediary, which are defined in [itu-t y.3511]. 
7 functional requirements for inter-cloud data policy 
this clause provides t he functional requirements for inter -cloud data policy derived from the use cases 
described in appendix i. 
7.1 data policy language 
it is recommended that the csp support inter-cloud data policy to satisfy data processing and usage. 
it is recommended that the csp support the dpl to annotate (tagging) cloud workloads. 
it is recommended that the cs p support inter -cloud data annotation (tagging) in order to realize the csc 
request. 
7.2 inter-cloud data policy administration point 
it is recommended that the csp support the idpap to administer data policies in inter-cloud. 
7.3 inter-cloud data policy information point 
it is recommended that the csp support the idpip to store the data policy provided by the csc in inter-cloud. 
7.4 inter-cloud data policy decision point 
it is recommended that the csp support the idpdp to enforce the data policy on the bas is of information 
collected by the idpep about data processing and usage among peer csps in inter-cloud. 
7.5 inter-cloud data policy enforcement point 
it is recommended that the csp support the idpep to implement the data policy decision of the idpdp in the 
inter-cloud environment. 
it is recommended that the csp support the idpep to collect information about data processing and usage 
among peer csps in inter-cloud and deliver this information to the idpdp. 
