1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
72  
8.3.2.18 design and implement service continuity 
the design and implement service continuity activity involves: 
• considering potential modes of failure of a cloud service  and the supporting infrastructure and 
putting in place recovery processes that will enable the cloud service to be available within the 
terms of the sla, through techniques such as failover and redundancy. 
8.3.2.19 ensure compliance 
the ensure compliance activity focuses on implementing regulatory and standards compliance. this activity 
involves: 
• ensuring that the implementation of the cloud service and its supporting infrastructure meets the 
requirements of any standards that need to be supported, for example, the standards can be 
required by the target customer set, or can be required by the certification scheme that the provider 
has chosen to assure the service; 
• ensuring that the implementation of the cloud service and its supporting infrastructure (including 
data handling) meets any regulatory requirements that can exist for the service or for the data that 
is stored or processed by the service. 
8.3.2.20 provide network connectivity 
the provide network connectivity activity involves the setting up of requested network connections and 
related capabilities, including (amongst others) connections between the cloud service customer  and the 
cloud service provider's system and between one cloud service provider's system and another cloud service 
provider's system. this can include the establishment of facilities such as a vpn or of dedicated bandwidth 
connections. 
network capabilities include the ability to provide appropriate bou nded delay, jitter, bandwidth, quality of 
service and reliability for all cloud service categories and for both cloud and non-cloud purposes in the case 
of naas. 
8.3.2.21 deliver network services 
the deliver network services activity involves the provision of network related services such as firewalls or 
load balancing. 
8.3.2.22 provide network management services 
the provide network management services activity focuses on managing the network infrastructure used to 
carry cloud servic es. this activity provides methods, tools and procedures allowing the operation, 
administration, maintenance and provisioning of the cloud network infrastructure. it includes tasks for: 
• keeping the network up and running smoothly; 
• keeping track of resources in the network and how they are allocated; 
• performing repairs and upgrades, for example, when equipment must be replaced or upgraded with 
new functions; 
• configuring resources in the network to support a cloud service. 
8.4 cloud service partner 
8.4.1 role 
a cloud service partner (csn) is a party which is engaged in support of, or auxiliary to, activities of either the 
cloud service provider or the cloud service customer, or both. 
a cloud service partner's cloud computing activities  vary depending on the type of partner and their 
relationship with the cloud service provider and the cloud service customer. 
