5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
804  
it is recommended that the csp integrates and validates cloud services from peer csps with respect to 
geographical policies. 
it is recommended that the csp validates and supports resiliency cloud services from peer csps with respect 
to geographical policies. 
note – a geographical policy can be conditional, for example "data shall not leave country x unless this movement is 
necessary to continue service during a major outage". 
8.2 governance policies  
it is required that the csp respects governance policies to reach objectives of trusted inter-cloud. 
8.3 governance roles 
it is required that the csp respects governance roles to reach objectives of trusted inter-cloud. 
8.4 regulatory policies 
it is required that the csp complies with applicable data regulation policies (e.g., medical, financial, defence, 
etc.) and business regulatory policies related to inter-cloud. 
note – regulation policies concern regulations applied to particular types of business es. 
8.5 laws and regulations 
it is required that the csp complies with applicable laws and regulations as well as local policies. 
9 requirements for management of trusted inter-cloud  
this clause provides requirements for management of trusted inter -cloud derived from the use cases 
described in appendix i. 
9.1 management policies 
it is required that the csp respects management policies applied to trusted inter-cloud. 
9.2 management roles 
it is required that the csp respects management roles applied to trusted inter-cloud. 
9.3 distributed data 
it is recommended that the csp supports management of distributed data in trusted inter-cloud. 
9.4 identity management 
it is recomme nded that the csp provides identity management to enable compliance with csc policy in 
trusted inter-cloud. 
9.5 access management 
it is recommended that the csp provides access management to enable compliance with csc policy in trusted 
inter-cloud. 
9.6 policy language  
it is recommended that the csp supports policy language (related to data annotation) to increase 
confidentiality of trusted inter-cloud.  
