3 xaas  
 
614  
vfw virtual firewall 
vrouter virtual router 
vdi virtual desktop infrastructure 
vm virtual machine 
voip voice over ip 
vpls  virtual private lan service 
vpn virtual private network 
vrf virtual routing and forwarding 
wan wide area network 
5 conventions 
the keywords " is required to " indicate a requirement which must be strictly followed and from which no 
deviation is permitted if conformance to this recommendation is to be claimed. 
the keywords "is recommended" indicate a requirement which is recommended but which is not absolutely 
required. thus this requirement need not be present to claim conformance. 
the keywords "can optionally" indicate an optional requirement which is permissible, without implying any 
sense of being recommended. this term is not intended to imply that the vend or's implementation must 
provide the option and the feature can be optionally enabled by the network operator/service provider. 
rather, it means the vendor may optionally provide the feature and still claim conformance with the 
specification. 
in the body of this recommendation and its annexes, the words shall, shall not, should, and may sometimes 
appear, in which case they are to be interpreted, respectively,  as is required to, is prohibited from, is 
recommended, and can optionally. the appearance of such phrases or keywords in an appendix or in material 
explicitly marked as informative is to be interpreted as having no normative intent. 
6 general description 
6.1 networking challenges in cloud computing 
there are several challenges to build an efficient and reliable network application and infrastructure  to 
provide cloud services . having both compute, storage and network capabilities may face the following 
challenges: 
• coordination of compute and storage virtualization with network capabilities 
 compute and storage performance challenges in cloud computing systems are successfully solved 
using virtualization as a core technique. server virtualization introduced  virtual machines' (vms) 
dynamic and static migration, which imposes demands on the networking envir onments. network 
is expected to provide suitable and flexible support for highly variable cloud applications, when they 
run inside complex and diverse syste m architecture. in such system it is possible to provide the 
compute and storage resources, but it i s also expected to dynamically provide the necessary 
networking support required to assure overall system performance, reliability and quality of service 
(qos) demands. 
• harmonized control of heterogeneous network technologies 
 due to the increasing geogr aphical distribution of cloud computing systems several network 
technologies can be utilised to assure end -to-end connectivity. it is expected that support of 
efficient control mechanisms for heterogeneous network technologies be provided. 
