cloud computing management 2 
 
  431 
8.1.3 service management layer 
the service management layer focuses on the knowledge of cloud services and includes all functionalities  
necessary for the management and operations of cloud services required by or proposed to customers. the 
focus is on cloud service delivery and management as opposed to the management of the underlying 
resources. 
this layer is accountable for cloud service  delivery such as service instance management, and cloud service 
operation such as service monitoring and problem handling and the assurance of the service quality. 
for details of the functionalities present in the service management layer, see clause 10.3. 
8.1.4 resource management layer 
the resource management layer is responsible for maintaining knowledge of re sources (application, 
computing and network infrastructures) and for managing all these resources (e.g. , networks, it systems, 
servers, routers) utilized to deliver and support cloud services required by or proposed to customers. 
for details of the functionalities present in the resource management layer, see clause 10.4. 
8.2 service management interface 
the smi-based approach provides a means to allow consistent e2e management of cloud computing services 
exposed by, and across, different domains of csps th us unifying the traditional telecommunication 
environment and the cloud computing environment. 
the smi capabilities include the following: 
− activation of a cloud service, i.e., making a cloud service available for a particular context (deploying 
a cloud service instance); 
− provisioning of a cloud service, i.e., configuring the settings of a cloud service instance; 
− status monitoring of a cloud se rvice instance, i.e., querying the history and current status in terms 
of lifecycle management for a specific cloud service instance; 
− usage monitoring of a cloud service instance, i.e. , querying for usage metrics from a cloud service 
instance or listenin g for usage metrics reports or alarms (e.g. , if metrics conditions imply 
notifications); 
− health monitoring of a cloud service instance, i.e., querying for health metrics from a cloud service 
instance; 
− update of a cloud service instance, i.e. , modification of the setting or lifecycle management status 
of a cloud service instance; 
− de-activation of a cloud service, i.e., making a cloud service unavailable. 
a further description of how the smi -based model can be used across various cloud computing referen ce 
architecture layers can be found in annex a. 
8.3 relationship with the cloud computing reference architecture 
figure 8-2 illustrates the relationship between the management layers described in clause 8. 1 and the bss 
and oss components of the cloud computing reference architecture as defined in [itu-t y.3502]. 
