security 7 
 
  1073 
18.1.2 intellectual property rights 
control 18.1.2 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
installing commercially licensed software in a cloud 
service can cause a breach of the licence terms for the 
software. the cloud service customer should have a 
procedure for identifying cloud-specific licensing 
requirements before permitting any licensed software 
to be installed in a cloud service. particular attention 
should be paid to cases where the cloud service is 
elastic and scalable and the software can be run on 
more systems or processor cores than is permitted by 
the licence terms. 
the cloud service provider should establish a process for 
responding to intellectual property rights complaints. 
18.1.3 protection of records 
control 18.1.3 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
the cloud service customer should request information 
from the cloud service provider about the protection of 
records gathered and stored by the cloud service 
provider that are relevant to the use of cloud services by 
the cloud service customer. 
the cloud service provider should provide information 
to the cloud service customer about the protection of 
records that are gathered and stored by the cloud 
service provider relating to the use of cloud services by 
the cloud service customer. 
18.1.4 privacy and protection of personally identifiable information 
control 18.1.4 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. 
other information for cloud services 
iso/iec 27018, code of practice for pii protection in public clouds acting as pii processors, offers additional 
information on this topic. 
18.1.5 regulation of cryptographic controls 
control 18.1.5 and the associated implementation guidance and other information specified in iso/iec 27002 
apply. the following sector-specific guidance also applies. 
implementation guidance for cloud services 
cloud service customer cloud service provider  
the cloud service customer should verify that the set of 
cryptographic controls that apply to the use of a cloud 
service comply with relevant agreements, legislation and 
regulations. 
the cloud service provider should provide descriptions 
of the cryptographic controls implemented by the cloud 
service provider to the cloud service customer for 
reviewing compliance with applicable agreements, 
legislation and regulations.  
  
