intercloud and interoperability 5 
 
  803 
6.5 relationship between trusted inter-cloud and the cloud computing reference architecture 
the cloud computing reference architecture [itu -t y.3502] provides an architectural framework which 
defines cloud computing roles, sub -roles, cloud computing activities and cross -cutting aspects. it also 
describes the functional layers and functional  components of a cloud computing system.  according to this 
framework, the  trusted inter -cloud relationships can be expressed by cross -cutting aspects like security, 
governance and resiliency that span over cloud computing multi-layer functionality. the conceptual view of 
cloud computing management is based on cloud computing ma nagement layers and the service 
management interface (smi) approach [itu-t y.3520] and [itu-t y.3522]. 
trust management in inter-cloud environments can be realized based on the common model for end-to-end 
cloud computing management [itu-t y.3521]. in particular, the operations support system (oss) functional 
components encompass the set of management capabilities that are required in order to manage and control 
trust in an inter -cloud environment. the role of business support system  (bss) functional compone nts 
remains to encompass the set of business -related management capabilities dealing with customers and 
supporting processes in a trusted manner (see clause 9.2.5.4 of [itu-t y.3502]). therefore, in a trusted inter-
cloud environment, the cloud computing ma nagement functionalities [itu-t y.3521] can be used to reach 
objectives of trust satisfying governance, security and resiliency aspects of inter-cloud. 
7 general requirements for trusted inter-cloud  
this clause identifies general requirements applicable to trusted inter-cloud. 
7.1 data separation 
it is required that the csp provides data separation between workloads to ensure security and confidentiality. 
7.2 data annotation  
it is recommended that the csp supports annotation (tagging) of trusted inter -cloud data (workloads) to 
enable compliance with regulatory obligations. 
7.3 confidentiality of data 
it is required that the csp respects the confidentiality of the csc's or csp's data used in trusted inter -cloud 
system. 
7.4 operational statistics 
it is recommended that the csp supports operational statistics for trusted inter -cloud services according to 
appropriate methods of measurement. 
7.5 interoperability and dependability  
it is recommended that the csp supports interoperability and dependability of trusted inter-cloud services. 
7.6 master service agreement  
it is recommended that the csp respects master service agreements to reach objectives of trust satisfying 
governance, security and resiliency aspects of inter-cloud. 
8 requirements for governance of trusted inter-cloud 
this clause provides requirements for governance of trusted inter-cloud derived from the use cases described 
in appendix i. 
8.1 geographical policies 
it is required that the csp respects all applicable geographical policies in order to realise requests from the 
csc or other csp. 
