3 xaas  
 
688  
8.3.4.3 ccs policy management 
the ccs policy management functional component provides capabilities for defining, storing and retrieving 
policies (e.g., quotas) that apply to virtual resources for cloud compute and storage. policies can include 
technical and security policies that apply to these virtual resources and their usage by their users. 
8.3.4.4 ccs service level management 
the ccs servic e level management functional component provides capabilities for managing the service 
levels of virtual resources for cloud compute and storage, aiming to ensure that each virtual resource meets 
the negotiated service level requirements. 
the ccs service level management functional component manages the capacity and performance relating to 
virtual resources for cloud compute and storage. this can involve the application of policies (e.g., a placement 
deployment rule which aims to avoid single points of failure). 
the ccs service level management functional component obtains monitoring information from the ccs 
monitoring and reporting functional component in order to measure and record kpis for the virtual resources. 
capacity of virtual resources is allocated or de-allocated based on the basis of these kpis. 
the ccs service level management functional component also keeps track of the overall state of allocated 
and available resources for cloud compute and storage. the comparison of al located capacity against 
performance kpis can assist in the identification of current or potential bottlenecks, in support of capacity 
planning. this includes the management of the virtual resources capacity (e.g. , density of virtual resources 
to physical resources), and the forwarding of information related to infrastructure resources capacity and 
usage reporting. 
8.3.4.5 ccs incident and problem management 
the ccs incident and problem management functional component provides capabilities for captur ing 
incident or problem reports related to virtual resources for ccs and managing those reports through to 
resolution. 
8.3.4.6 virtualization management 
the virtuali zation management functional component provides the capabilities for managing the 
virtualization of the resources for ccs (e.g., realized by means of hypervisors). 
8.3.4.7 ccs virtual resource inventory 
the ccs virtual resource inventory functional component keeps track of the allocation of virtual resources 
for ccs to physical resources (e.g., server pool). 
8.3.4.8 software image management 
the software image management functional component manages software images (e.g., network functions) 
as requested by other oss functional components (e.g., oss for network functions). these requests include 
operations on images such as add, delete, update, query and perform rollback. once validated by the 
software image management functional component, software images are stored in a software image 
repository. 
8.3.5 oss-nc functional components 
note – the following d escription is based on an adaptation of the oss functional components as described in cl ause 
9.2.5.3 of [itu-t y.3502]. 
the oss-nc functional components encompass the set of operational related management capabilities that 
are required in order to manage and control the network connectivity in naas csp domains, also called naas 
csp connectivity domains. see clause 7.8.4 for a description of the oss-nc functionalities. 
the oss-nc functional components may be able to manage network connectivity across one or multiple naas 
csp's domains (e.g., access, backhaul or core naas csp domains) and can also manage network connectivity 
at one or multiple technology layers (e.g., overlay, ip, multiprotocol label switching (mpls), optical transport 
network (otn)). 
