5 intercloud and interoperability  
 
838  
ii.29 reference point: i-psm-slm 
the service level management functional component interacts with peer service management functional 
component through i-psm-slm to access the oss of a peer csp to manage the service levels of a particular 
inter-cloud service to meet the requirements of the inter-cloud sla. 
ii.30 reference point: i-mr-slm 
the service level management functional component interacts with monitoring and reporting functional 
component through i-mr-slm to get inter-cloud monitoring information. 
ii.31 reference point: i-slm-psi 
the service level management functional component interacts with peer service integration functional 
component though i-slm-psi to negotiate inter-cloud service sla with peer csps. 
ii.32 reference point: i-mr-ipm 
the monitoring and reporting functional compone nt interacts with incident and problem management 
functional component through i -mr-ipm to exchange inter -cloud monitoring information for inter -cloud 
incident and problem management. 
ii.33 reference point: i-psm-mr 
the monitoring and reporting functional component interacts with peer service management functional 
component through i-psm-mr to access the oss of a peer csp for monitoring and reporting. 
ii.34 reference point: i-mr-psi 
the monitoring and reporting functional component interacts with  peer service integration functional 
component through i -mr-psi to get inter -cloud services negotiation, discovery, selection, reservation and 
release information for monitoring. 
ii.35 reference point: i-psm-ipm 
the incident and problem management function al component interacts with peer service management 
functional component through i -psm-ipm to access the oss of a peer csp for inter -cloud incidents and 
problems management. 
ii.36 reference point: i-ipm-psi 
the incident and problem management functional co mponent interacts with peer service integration 
functional component through i-ipm-psi to get inter-cloud integration information for incident and problem 
management. 
ii.37 reference point: i-psm-aim 
the peer service management functional component interacts with authentication and identity management 
functional component through i-psm-aim for peer csp and inter-cloud service authenticate and identities. 
ii.38 reference point: i-psm-em 
the peer service  management functional component interacts with encryption management functional 
component through i-psm-em to get data encryption and api encryption for peer csps. 
ii.39 reference point: i-psm-ba 
the peer service management functional component interacts with the business access functional 
component of a peer csp through i-psm-ba to access the business capabilities of a peer csp. 
