 framework and requirements for cloud computing 1 
 
   247 
table ii.2 – customer-oriented cloud service provisioning on distributed cloud 
use case 
pre-conditions 
(optional) 
 
post-conditions 
(optional) 
 
requirements – adaptive resource composition (see clause 7.1) 
– service routing (see clause 7.2) 
– network services delivery (see clause 7.2) 
– context awareness (see clause 7.2) 
– context information management (see clause 7.4) 
ii.3 distributed cloud infrastructure and service management 
table ii.3 – distributed cloud infrastructure and service management 
use case 
name distributed cloud infrastructure and service management 
description this use case describes the distributed cloud infrastructure and service management. 
distributed cloud infrastructure includes processing, storage, networking and other hardware 
resources as well as software assets. distributed cloud infrastructure management is the 
management of hardware resources and software assets of distributed cloud.  
distributed cloud includes core, regional and edge clouds, which are different in size, hardware 
types and software. for example, a distributed cloud resource may use a graphics processing unit 
(gpu) or field-programmable gate array  (fpga) hardware for ar/ vr scenarios and 
microprocessor-based server instead of x86 server for some specified application. these 
resources are distributed across various environments. thus, resources need to be isolated and 
protected in secure manner. 
distributed cloud provides f lexible and agility network connectivity for core, regional and edge 
clouds. the network connection can be changed on demand or based on policy, such as active -
standby policy. 
the ultimate objective of distributed cloud is to provide distributed cloud serv ices for the 
customers. the distributed cloud encapsulates the capabilities of distributed cloud infrastructure 
into various cloud services for the end customers. 
distributed cloud is a hierarchical system, in which each core cloud, regional cloud and edge cloud 
could manage its local infrastructure and service, and the infrastructure and service of the whole 
distributed cloud could be unified managed and coordinated by the distributed cloud 
management. 
