3 xaas  
 
672  
the naas csc. this representation avoids the direct communication and interaction between the naas csc 
and these naas resources (e.g., network elements of the naas csp infrastructure) and masks implementation 
specific aspects of naas resources used in the context of the naas serv ice instance. this abstract view 
presented to the naas csc  also allows real -time configuration change demands from the naas csc to be 
reflected by the naas csp on its own resources. therefore, a hierarchical and extensible framework, which 
can be realised by a set of information models, needs to be designed to hide the protocol specific  and/or 
vendor specific details of the resources being used by the naas csp. the modelled objects being part of these 
naas information models can be grouped as naas resource model, naas service model, and naas service 
operational policy model. 
naas resourc e models reflect in an abstract manner naas csp 's resources including their associated 
topological view across different layers (e.g., layer 2 (l2) and layer 3 (l3)). naas resource models designed by 
the naas csp or cloud service partners (csns) (e.g., service developer) are used by the naas csp to represent 
naas csp's resources at a conceptual level, including physical and/or virtualized network functions as well as 
connectivity links. naas resource models are not exposed to the naas csc. 
a naas service model is service specific, i.e., specific to the naas service being offered to the naas csc by the 
naas csp but rely on underlying naas resource models. once a naas service is instantiated for a naas csc, 
the corresponding naas service model designed by the naas csp is exposed to the naas csc. 
a naas service operational policy model is service specific, i.e., are specific to the naas service being offered 
to the naas csc. this m odel defines naas csp -wide policies applicable for the corresponding naas service 
and is designed by the naas csp or csn (e.g., service developer). during the instantiation of a naas service, 
the naas service operational policy model is combined with the naas service model and mapped into a target 
configuration of naas csp's resources (e.g., network elements), according to naas resource models. 
note – the usage example of modelling is provided in appendix ii. 
7.3 functionalities for naas service orchestration 
the naas service orchestration functionalities are responsible for cross-domain service orchestration within 
the naas csp, e.g. , for a naas connectivity service, the functionality will be capable to orchestrate naas 
resources (including network services, network functions and resources) in multiple naas csp domains 
(including legacy domains and virtualized network domains). 
upon re ceipt of a naas service request from the naas csc, th ese functionalit ies are responsible for 
decomposing, as necessary, the request into several independent requests and for distributing each of the 
resulting requests to the relevant control functions of the naas csp. an example of a composite naas service 
is a service chain path, i.e., an ordered list of connection points forming a chain of network functions ( pnfs 
and/or vnfs), along with policies associated to the list. 
the naas service orchestration functionalities interact with the naas service instantiation functionalities to 
address naas service decomposition and configuration of requests received from naas service instantiation 
functionalities (see clause 7.2.1). 
in case of a non-composite naas service request received from the naas csc, the naas service orchestration 
functionalities can transfer this request to the relevant domain control function. 
the naas orchestration functionalities are also responsible for ensuring that naas resources (e.g., nss, nfs, 
connectivity) are appropriately instantiated throughout the different naas csp domains (e.g., across one or 
network domains that can be using different networking connectivity technologies). 
7.4 functionalities for network analytics 
functionalities f or network analytics are responsible for data collection from  the naas csp's network  
environment (such as network jitter, delay, packet loss rate, round -trip time, domain name s ystem (dns) 
resolution time) a nd events listening to continuously monitor naas services during their lifecycle. these 
functionalities help to provide customized analytical network applications and provide the analysed results 
to the related functional components (such as resource abstraction and control) for further action, including 
healing the service, appropriately scale up or scale down the service, dynamically adjust routing, etc . 
