3 xaas  
 
570  
appendix v 
 
service provisioning based on csc types in daas 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
this appendix describes the service provisioning based on the various types of cloud service customers. also, 
several considerations of the overall service provisioning for daas according to the user accounting 
provisioning are described. 
v.1 types of cloud service customer  
in daas, various types of csc can exist and there are many types of service provisioning according to the type 
of csc. therefore, the classification of csc is categorized as below: 
• classification based on service level – the csc can be classified with the various type s of service 
level agreement (sla).  
• classification based on virtual desktop environment – the csc can be classified depending on the 
types of virtual desktop environment. for example, some cscs can be serviced with a virtual desktop 
with os desktop in itself, and others can be serviced with a web application of virtual desktop. also, 
this is related with the type of virtual desktop. 
• classification based on the allocation of the virtual desktop environment – a csc can be served with 
the permanently allocated virtual desktop environment , while  others can be served with a 
temporary virtual desktop in a virtual desktop pool. 
• classification based on the demand of resource s – a csc can be served wit h the virtual desktop 
environment of the predefined configuration or the pre-set virtual image, while others can be served 
with the virtual desktop environment using csc manual configuration and resource management.  
v.2 user account provisioning based on csc types in daas 
in clause v.1, the various types of csc are classified.  user account provisioning could be implemented in 
accordance with these types of csc, and user account should also be provisioned in accordance with service 
provisioning in daas. in general, csc can request the account in order to use a virtual desktop environment. 
csc can be registered by an administrator on the csp side or the csc can register the account automatically. 
the types of user account provisioning for daas are listed below. 
• discretionary account provisioning – this account allows administrators to decide for themselves. 
this approach can be applied to the small office or home application. 
• self-service account provisioning – this account allows the csc to participate in some aspects of the 
provisioning process in order to reduce the administrator's overhead and to quickly supply the 
virtual desktop environment to the csc according to the manually requested resources (such as the 
number of cpu, amount of memory, amount of hard disk resources etc.). 
• workflow-based account provisioning – this account obtains the approvals from the designated 
approvers before csc access. also, this approach can  supply the virtual desktop environments to 
the cscs according to the service level with a prior approval. 
• automatic account provisioning – this requires every account to be added, using one same method, 
with a centralized management application or data by using the predefined procedures.  
