1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
170  
appendix ii 
 
relationship between the logical components and  
the activities of cloud service broker for csb 
(this appendix does not form an integral part of this recommendation.) 
activities of cloud service broker for csb consist of (1) acquire and assess customers, (2) assess marketplace, 
(3) set up legal agreement, (4) assist csc for accessing service and (5) check and control service status. 
 
figure ii.1 – relationship between the logical components and the activities of 
cloud service broker for csb  
note – figure ii.1 identifies reused activities from [itu -t y.3502] as well as new activities needed to support cloud 
service brokerage. 
(1) logical components that can cover the acquire and assess customers activity:  the acquire and 
assess customers activity includes the tasks required to market and sell cloud services up to the 
point where a cloud service customer agrees a contract to use one or more services, see 
clause 8.4.2.6 in [itu -t y.3502] . the workspace and the product catalogue management logical 
components cover the acquire and assess customers activity. the workspace logical component 
(clause 6.4.1) provides a user interface for cscs to help to  present service requirements and to 
request a cloud service. also the product catalogue management logical component (clause 6.4.2) 
provides information to potential cscs about available services and associated slas and contract 
terms. so, both logical components support the marketing and selling of cloud services up to the 
point where a cloud service customer agrees a contract to use one or more services. 
(2) logical components that can cover the assess marketplace activity: the assess marketplace activity 
focuses on assessing the current cloud services marketplace to find cloud service(s) that meet the 
customers' requirements see clause 8.4.2.7 in [itu -t y.3502]. the workspace logical component 
(clause 6.4.1) and the product catalogue management logical component ( clause 6.4.2) cover the 
assess marketplace activity. the workspace logical component provides a user interface for csps. in 
workspace, a csp can register, modify and remove a service list to be sold through a cloud service 
broker. also the product catalogue management logical component gathers cloud services from 
multiple csps through workspace, registers those cloud services  and, if needed, cancels the 
registered cloud services. so, both logical components support assessing the current cloud services 
marketplace to find cloud service(s) that meet the customers' requirements. 

