1 framework and requirements for cloud computing  
 
154  
table i.1 – a general use case for cloud service brokerage 
derived 
requirements 
– authentication and authorization for workspace (see clause 7.1)  
– account management (see clause 7.1) 
– user interface for cscs (see clause 7.1) 
– user interface for csps (see clause 7.1) 
– access information forwarding (see clause 7.4) 
– prohibiting access information storing (see clause 7.4) 
 
table i.2 – a general use case of cloud service aggregation 
title a general use case of cloud service aggregation. 
description the csn: cloud service broker  aggregates the various cloud services of the multiple csps and 
publishes these services to the cscs without any change. the difference between the general 
use case for cloud service brokerage in table i.1 and this use case is that cloud service 
aggregation brokerage provides the csc a product catalogue which consists of multiple 
services hosted by csps and an aggregated management view, i.e., workspace, for ordered 
multiple services. 
the csps register cloud services to the csn: cloud service broker  in product catalogue, which 
is the unique one provided to a csc by the csn: cloud service broker  with all csps' cloud 
services. the synchronization of the product catalogue can be triggered by the registered csps 
or the csn: cloud service broker itself in case of modification in the cloud services. 
the csc accesses the csb workspace , selects and purc hases different cloud services from 
multiple csps. the csn: cloud service broker completes ordering processing of multiple csps, 
instead of the csc. 
after the csc individually selects and orders multiple services from the product catalogue, the 
csn: cloud service broker shows the list of ordered multiple services to the csc so that the csc 
can request controls for the cloud services to the csn: cloud service broker . the csc can use 
workspace to manage the ordered multiple services together or individually. for instance, the 
csc can pause all the aggregated services at once and checks the overall usage  cost of the 
aggregated services. 
the csn: cloud service broker can help the csc to provision all the selected cloud services 
together to simplify the process. for instance, to launch multiple virtual machines in multiple 
csps' cloud environment. 
the csn: cloud service broker can manage controls and status of  multiple cloud services in 
aggregated manner and/or each cloud services individually.  
all monitor information can be collected by the csn: cloud service broker to provide the csc 
with an overall view of cloud services together. the unified charges can be proved to the csc 
by the csn: cloud service broker. 
roles/sub-roles csp, csn: cloud service broker, csc 
