4 video processing and storage  
 
750  
1 scope 
this recommendation describes the brief functional model, application scenarios and requirements for cloud 
storage in visual surveillance (vs) systems, based on the requirements and architectures defined by 
[itu-t f.743], [itu-t h.626] and [itu-t h.626.1]. 
a visual surveillance service is a telecommunication service focusing on video (and audio) application 
technology, which is used to remotely capture multimedia (e.g., audio, video, image, various alarm signals), 
and present this to end users in a friendly  manner (including accessibility aspects), based on a broadband 
network with ensured quality, security and reliability.  cloud storage is a data storage model for enabling 
service users to have ubiquitous, convenient and on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable 
storage resources, which can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or 
service-provider interaction. in cloud storage systems, the physical and virtual resources can be dynamically 
assigned and reassigned according to user demand. cloud storage can realize scalable, flexible and reliable 
data storage for large-scale visual surveillance. 
2 references 
the following itu-t recommendations and other references contain provisions which, through reference in 
this text, constitute provisions of this recommendation. at the time of publication, the editions indicated 
were valid. all recommendations and other references are subject to revision; users of this recommendation 
are therefore encouraged to investigate the pos sibility of applying the most recent edition of the 
recommendations and other references listed below. a list of the currently valid itu-t recommendations is 
regularly published. the reference to a document within this recommendation does not give it, as a  stand-
alone document, the status of a recommendation. 
[itu-t f.743] recommendation itu-t f.743 (2009), requirements and service description for visual 
surveillance. 
[itu-t h.626] recommendation itu-t h.626 (2011), architectural requirements for visual 
surveillance. 
[itu-t h.626.1] recommendation itu-t h.626.1 (2013), architecture for mobile visual surveillance. 
3 definitions 
3.1 terms defined elsewhere 
this recommendation uses the following terms defined elsewhere: 
3.1.1 application [b-itu-t y.101]: a structured set of capabilities, which provide value-added functionality 
supported by one or more services. 
3.1.2 customer [b-itu-t m.60]: an entity which receives services offered by a service provider based on 
a contractual relationship. it may include the role of a network user. 
3.1.3 customer unit [itu-t f.743]: a device located at the customer part of a visual surveillance system 
and used to present multimedia information (such as audio, video, image, alarm signal, etc.) to the end user. 
3.1.4 premises unit [itu-t f.743]: a device located at the remote part of a visual surveillance system and 
used to capture multimedia information (such as audio, video, image, alarm signal , etc.) from a surveilled 
object. 
3.1.5 service [b-itu-t y.101]: a structure set of capabilities intended to support applications. 
3.1.6 visual surveillance  [itu-t f.743] : a telecommunication service focusing on video (but including 
audio) application technology, which is used to remotely capture multimedia (such as audio, video, image,  
alarm signals, etc.) and present them to the end user in a friendly manner, based on a managed  broadband 
network with quality, security and reliability ensured. 
